Durban - Driven by spiritual conviction during a worship session two years ago, a Phoenix pastor has, to date, built an impressive six boreholes in India. The borehole initiative, called Jeeta Paani Missions, has since provided water for hundreds of impoverished families living in local Indian tribes and villages. Pastor Suren Ganas, of Agape Worship Centre, said he was deep in worship when he had a “witness in my spirit” to build water wells in India. Pastor Ganas began making enquiries and eventually found a pastor in India, who had a similar passion. “Coming from a little church with a big heart to fulfil God’s mandate on my life, my vision started. We did the first well two years ago and saved an entire village from going to a river and all the dangers associated with it, like dangerous snakes, wild animals and diseases. This was in a leprosy colony that no one cared about. “When we got there it was just too overwhelming and immediately I realised that this was my passion.” Ganas recently returned to India and built another five wells, however the community-minded minister said providing water was not enough. “We have also improved lives through the distribution of food packs, stationery and clothing.” He said most of the work was done in tribal areas and poor villages that had no access to running water. “South Africa, I know, has water issues but we have access to good water unlike in India. We did a well now in a village where the pastor and the people testified that they had been praying for the past 30 years for a borehole, so the community could have good, clean drinking water. Ganas said while his team are unable to solve all the water problems at once, he wants to “impact communities one step at a time”. “Every time I speak to the people there I have to remind them that we are the fourth generation out of India. I also feel that God gave us an opportunity to leave that land and come to our beloved SA, so it is our duty to sow back to the land of our forefathers.” Ganas covers his personal expenses for flights and accommodation. Speaking on the cost of the boreholes, he said: “The wells range from R15000 to R25000 depending on the area and depth of drilling, but we are negotiating cheaper drilling going forward.” He said costs have risen to R120000. “I normally travel with my wife, Vimla. We would love to take others along but note that you could be taken out of your comfort zone.” He explained: “Long travel, unhygienic conditions and sometimes dangerous weather and environmental factors come with the mission work but it’s all worth it at the end.” To support the project, e-mail Ganas on surenganas@gmail.com or call him on 0823527010. POST