Durban - The newly launched safety and security Namola App is being touted as an “Uber for the police”. Namola, a free crime response app that allows users to share their GPS co-ordinates, name and nature of the emergency with a 24/7 response call centre, went live nationwide last week. The founder of Namola, Craig Rivett, told POST the app was initially piloted under a different model in Tshwane in 2015. The model used now is the result of the team updating their approach based on what has worked, he said. “This app is important because by knowing who is sending the alert and where they are, Namola removes many of the barriers in calling emergency response,” said Rivett. “Namola also breaks down the barriers between law enforcement agencies and builds a bridge with communities. The more people use Namola, the more power it will have to drive change within the police and response framework.” Chief ambassador for Namola, Yusuf Abramjee, said Namola was initially launched as an "Uber for police". “It was introduced to give victims of crime access to a new, innovative way of contacting the police. Three days after its launch, it has almost 100000 registered users. “My responsibility to Namola is to help promote the system and gather community feedback on what should be adapted and changed.” Warwick Scott-Rodger, the executive head of Dialdirect Insurance, which has partnered with Namola, said the app was a smart complement to 10111. “Your call will always be answered and the information will be passed on to the nearest police station. Namola doesn’t guarantee that the police will be on time, but it greatly improves your chances of getting help,” he said. The chief executive of Namola, Peter Matthaei, said Namola was one of the biggest breakthroughs South Africa had in the fight against crime. The way we call for emergency response is finally entering the 21st century, said Matthaei. Police Minister Fikile Mbalula emphasised that crime fighting required civil society to work together with the police. “Modern technology empowers our people to protect themselves and access information and help. I congratulate the Namola team on their launch and I’m motivated by their continued activism in the fight against crime. Indeed this fight requires partnerships like these that empower the people.” The minister has instructed the police to use technology and come up with innovative tools in the fight against crime. The app can be downloaded on iPhone from http://apple.co/2rOu47E and Android, http://bit.ly/29bIR4t. POST