Since the reunion, in which four generations of Govender’s descendants attended, the family have already got the ball rolling on tracing their ancestry. “We made contact with the University of KwaZulu-Natal’s libraries, records registry office in Stamford Hill Road and tried to get more information on our roots, but they did not have the records on file, so we plan on going to the 
Department of Home Affairs in Pretoria next month to trace our lineage using my uncle’s identity document,” said Govender’s granddaughter Molly. “We are determined to find out which village or caste our family belongs to and at some stage we intend visiting India,” she said. According to Molly, Govender’s parents came to South Africa as farmers. “Our grandfather, who was born in South Africa in 1912 was the only child. “His parents indenture numbers appear on his identity document but we have been unable to locate their details. There have been a few hiccups along the way but that will not deter us.” At the reunion, which comprised games and talent contests coupled with lunch, a high tea and spit braai, members of the family paid tri-
bute to Govender, a vegetable farmer. He was based in Umzinto and had 11 children. Govender’s son, Jay, said the reunion had taken meticulous planning. “A precedent has been set for the family to continue celebrating together, while keeping the legacy and stories alive. More importantly, it has paid tribute to our elders, who forged the path for us to follow.” At the reunion, which was held at his home, a family tree was unveiled. It listed all Govender’s 
descendants. “We are now working on finding out more about my dad’s roots.” Jay said every family should consider tracing their family tree and use the opportunity to host a reunion. “The branches of a tree make a tree stronger in so many ways, so build your branches, so that they can flourish. Allow that tree to live a legacy, remembering that the roots to that tree is the same. “This celebration will 
always be remembered not just for its triumph in bringing family together but also for the soul enriching, 
harmonious atmosphere it 
generated.” POST