Durban - A change in the leadership of the Inkatha Freedom Party could go a long way to extending the appeal of the party to a more cosmopolitan base. So says political analyst Imraan Buccus, reacting to the announcement by IFP leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi that he would step down at the party’s elective conference in December. Buccus said one needed to be concerned that the party was built around the political gravitas that Buthelezi had. “When parties are built around personality, and when they change its leadership, it could lead to fragmentation of the party. “The IFP, in recent times, has been gaining ground and the appeal of the party is moving beyond the narrow ethnic appeal. “A change in leadership could go a long way to extending the appeal of the party to a more cosmopolitan base,” said Buccus. The party’s national executive committee member, Narend Singh, said 89-year-old Buthelezi continually strived to promote social cohesion. “He has served the party and the country well. He is a principled leader who made it his duty to accommodate all walks of life. “He never saw another race. He saw everyone as the same and described South Africa as a tasty salad where all races are unique, but when put together went well together. “It will be hard knowing he will be stepping down, but we have been assured he will give his fullest to us even when he leaves office.” Minority Front leader Shameen Thakur Rajbansi described Buthelezi as a true statesman. “His association with our late leader, Amichand Rajbansi, has always been one based on mutual trust and respect.” She said the IFP had a firm political foundation due to his strong and charismatic transformational leadership. “He has steered the Zulu people through different government regimes and embraced people from minority groups into the IFP, many of whom are Indians at different levels of government. “Dr Buthelezi has experienced political challenges, but bows out unscathed and we wish him well in his well-deserved retirement.” The DA’s Zwakele Mncwango thanked Buthelezi for the role he played in the province: “He has worked long and hard and it is now time for him to pass the baton to someone else. His successor, Velenkosini Hlabisa, comes across as a strong and independent candidate who will add value to the party.” The MEC for Human Settlements, Ravi Pillay, said: “I have in recent times had the fortune of sharing the same table with him at various functions and found myself describing him as an elder statesman of our democracy.” Buthelezi told POST he had wanted to step down since 2004, but remained on at the insistence of party members. “Now is right for a new leader. My successor is someone who has a unifying influence, because he has garnered votes from members in the party and has been tested with his role of mayor of KwaHlabisa.” With November marking the 157th anniversary of the arrival of Indians to South Africa and 100 years since the abolition of indenture, Buthelezi said he had always admired the role played by Indians, who had helped shape the country. “From our liberation struggle to our struggle for social cohesion, economic stability and social justice, I have worked hand in hand with remarkable leaders from the Indian community and am honoured to call them my fellow South Africans and compatriots.” POST