Durban - Irritated by her drug addict son’s constant demand for money, a Shallcross pensioner called on a private security company for help, but instead of scaring him off like they usually did she was shocked to find her son dead. Mzansi Fire and Security reaction officer, Malusi Khathi, 34, appeared in the Chatsworth Magistrate’s Court on Thursday, charged with murder. The matter was adjourned to January. Grief-stricken Lallie Naidoo, 65, was alone at her home last Wednesday when her son, Nolan Naidoo, 35, arrived and demanded money. According to a close relative, who asked not to be named, this scenario between the mother and son played out almost every day and the security company was made aware of it. “He was never violent with her, but whenever she got fed up with him pestering her, she would press the panic button on the home alarm system to scare him off. “Sometimes a reaction officer would come to the house to make him leave. The security company knew the situation,” said the relative. He said Nolan arrived home last Wednesday morning demanding money. “She pressed the panic button and he left. No one from the security company responded. But at around midday, Nolan returned and began calling for her. An officer from the security company was driving by and intervened.” While Lallie was standing nearby, the relative said the officer took Nolan to the verandah, where he tried to handcuff him. “She heard two shots go off,” he said. The officer allegedly tried to flee, he said, but was apprehended by neighbours until the police arrived. The security company was not available for comment, but released a statement on its Facebook page, expressing sincerest condolences to the family for the loss of life. “For the purposes of clarity: Mzansi responded to a panic alarm from a residence in Shallcross. Upon arrival the lady had complained again about abuse by her drug-addicted son, who had already left the property by the time we arrived. “As the reaction officer was about to depart, he heard the lady scream for help, as the man had returned. “Our reaction officer approached the male to defuse the situation. The man was aggressive and attempted to assault the reaction officer. A scuffle had broken out and the 35-year-old male tried to disarm the reaction officer. This matter is now subject to a police investigation.” Baffled by the shooting, the relative said Nolan was not armed and was not being violent in any way. “He was a small, lightly-built person and the reaction officer was much bigger in size; he could easily have overpowered him.” The relative said even police officers don’t use such brute force on criminals. “Police officers are trained not only to handle these situations, but also when they should use their firearms. Is it the same for security officers? What level of training do they have on apprehending suspects or people,” he questioned. The relative said Nolan started using drugs at around the age of 20. “As a family we have tried to get him help through a rehabilitation facility and we even found him a job, but nothing seemed to work. Despite his habits, he did not deserve to die this way.” Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane confirmed that a case of murder was being investigated. POST