Durban - For Newlands West resident Krishna Govender, standing guard for every South African president since democracy - as well as other VIPs - has been a huge honour. Having retired recently after a career spanning 39 years, Govender, 61, said being a presidential guard was one of the toughest jobs around. “When you have the opportunity to join the special guard unit - now known as presidential protection services - it’s a 24-hour job. You need to be alert at all times and provide the highest level of protection,” he told POST. “You need to plan around events and know all entry and exit routes well. You also get the chance to see the men in the limelight and get to know them on a more personal level.” Govender described his retirement as bitter-sweet. He said he really loved his job. “I will certainly miss the rush when out protecting lives. I gave my all for 39 years and even sacrificed my family time. I was only 24 when I met my wife, Veni, and we courted for two years until our marriage. “We were a young couple, but I was out doing my job. She and my kids, Asogan and Prenola, have been so patient with me, I need to dedicate my life to them,” he said. Govender, who always wanted to join the police force, said his career had begun at Chatsworth Police Station in 1978. “I worked as a general officer who did patrols and other work for seven years at the station. Shortly afterwards, I joined the special guard unit, where we protected and escorted dignitaries like the late Amichand Rajbansi, JN Reddy and also delegates who came into the country. “Eventually in 1990, when some exiled ANC members were released, I got the opportunity to guard them. I have protected people like Walter Sisulu and, more importantly, Nelson Mandela,” he said. Govender, who spent many years with the country’s first democratic president, recalled accompanying Mandela to the voting station in Inanda in 1994. “That day, a few others and I asked him to take a picture with us. We knew after that day he would be the president, so we asked him. He was so humbling and such an amazing human being and he agreed. He kept a few of us around him all the time and took me with him on his first official visit to India as president of South Africa,” he said. Govender said protecting the country’s first black president straight out of apartheid was tough. “In the beginning of his presidency, there was a lot of tension and I remember coming under fire once. We were in uMlazi and luckily we had back-up on the way, but it was touch and go. “Years ago, I accompanied a member of the royal family to the SABC studios and he was speaking ill about a political party. Within minutes, that party stormed the parking (area) trying to assassinate him, but I saved him and got him out quick,” he said. Speaking of the current president, Govender described Jacob Zuma as a warm-hearted person. “I did not get the opportunity to be as close to him as I was to Mandela, but he is a wonderful person. At times we shared small jokes and conversations,” he said. “He reminds me of a fatherly figure.” POST