Durban - As part of the SAPS festive season operations, police have arrested more people in Phoenix, for allegedly dealing in drugs. This is the third drug arrest in the month. Last Monday, two men from Greenbury in Phoenix were arrested for allegedly dealing in drugs with a street value of R500 000. Read: Drugs worth half a million rand seized in Greenbury, Phoenix. On Friday, police conducted two raids at different homes in Phoenix, and arrested three men between the ages of 25 and 29- for allegedly being in possession of mandrax tablets, heroin, rock cocaine and dagga. They are due to appear in the  Phoenix Magistrate's Court. The raids were a joint effort by the Provincial Organised Crime Unit, Durban Public Order Police Project Team, Durban Central K9 Unit, eThekwini Outer South K9, eThekwini Outer North Crime Intelligence and Metro Police, said police spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane. Zwane said at around 1pm on Friday members proceeded to the first target which was a house suspected to be "openly conducting a sale of narcotics". "As the members approached the house throngs of smokers fled from the house.Upon entering the premises two males started running from the police officers but the members quickly caught up with them." Zwane said the first suspect, aged 29, was searched and a black plastic bag was found in his possession. "The plastic bag was opened and mandrax tablets, heroine in capsules as well as cash were found. He was immediately arrested." He said the second suspect was searched and he was also found in possession of a similar black plastic bag which contained heroin, rock cocaine as well as mandrax tablets. "Further investigations revealed that both the suspects are in the country illegally.  The members went to the second targeted home and began to search the premises. The members requested that the dogs be removed from the kennels and began searching inside." Zwane said the members found dagga stashed inside the kennels. "The search continued, a further stash of dagga was found and a 25-year-old suspect was arrested." In another incident, A 57 year old and a 32 year old were arrested for being in alleged possession of rock cocaine and mandrax tablets. Read: Alleged drug dealers nabbed in Phoenix
 
 The KwaZulu-Natal Acting Provincial Commissioner, Major General Bheki Langa commended the members for confiscating the drugs and arresting the suspects. “These operations show that the police in the province are committed in cleaning up the streets from drug smugglers,” he said. POST