Durban - A Bayview policeman, who allegedly stole live ammunition from the SAPS and resold them for over R18000 on the streets to would-be criminals, was nabbed by the Hawks in an undercover operation on Friday. Warrant officer Samuel Govindasamy, 46, who is stationed at Bayview SAPS and Inderaj Bisooncharran, 50, alleged to work at the same station, appeared in the Durban Magistrate’s Court on Monday. They are facing charges of theft of 400 rounds of ammunition, 11 bulletproof vests, a police radio and items of SAPS uniform, including firearm holsters, trousers, shirts and skirts, from police stations in and around Chatsworth. They also stand accused of contravening the Prevention of Organised Crime Act. The duo allegedly stole the items and sold them on April 21 this year for R8800 in Chatsworth and on April 28 for R10000 near a primary school in the township. According to the charge sheet, the men are alleged to have stolen 14 x 9mm magazines, 50 live rounds, 46 R5 rifle rounds, 19 shotgun live rounds and 49 x 9mm short live ammunition, among many other items. Hawks spokesperson, Captain Simphiwe Mhlongo, said: “The Hawks Anti-Corruption Task Team worked with the duo, posing as criminals, and managed to purchase lots of ammunition, bulletproof vests, pepper spray, firearm magazines and police uniforms.” Senior State Advocate Val Dafel opposed bail because of the seriousness of the crime. The accused’s defence attorney, Norman Seppings, requested bail, saying that his clients were unwell. Magistrate Mahomed Motala, who described the matter as having “huge public interest”, said it must be heard out properly. He added that both accused, however, would be able to access medical attention in prison and would be kept in isolation. The men were remanded and the case was adjourned to mid-November for a formal bail application where further charges may be added. A recent report released by the Independent Police Investigative Directorate showed a drastic increase in crimes committed by police between 2015/2016 and 2016/2017. KZN had the highest number of crimes committed by police. A total of 3313 cases are being investigated, 66 of which are related to corruption. The DA’s Shadow Deputy Police Minister, Dianne Kohler Barnard, said criminality audits used to be done on SAPS members, but “mysteriously stopped in 2010”. “These audits alone revealed convicted murderers, rapists, fraudsters, arsonists and the like to be working in the service and being promoted up the ranks to hold extremely high office. “Sadly, the ethos of serving the people is being eroded daily by the bad apples within the SAPS and until lifestyle audits become the norm, and officers who commit crimes are fired, arrested and tried in a court of law, nothing will change.” The head of Justice and Violence Prevention at the Institute for Security Studies, Gareth Newham, described police corruption as a “hidden crime” as there was no reliable source of statistics available. “Police are more experienced and more knowledgeable about how to cover their tracks.” POST