Durban - The Movember campaign, which is aimed at promoting men’s health, including raising awareness of prostate and testicular cancer, has ensured more males take charge of their lives. To highlight the initiative this month, men are encouraged to grow a moustache or not shave for 30 days. Not only are they motivated to find out about their family medical history and go for medical checks, but also to familiarise themselves with unusual changes to their bodies and reach out for help if needed. Movember calls for men to make a commitment to be more active and incorporate exercise into their daily routine. Passionate about health and fitness, Durban actor Madhushan Singh said the platform created awareness and provided information on topics that men do not acknowledge as a problem. Singh, who has been supporting the campaign for two years, said he chose to grow a moustache and beard. “As a public figure, it is my responsibility to stand up and talk about issues that some men face but don’t want to accept as a problem. We need to support and help them. “This initiative not only promotes a healthy lifestyle but creates unity within the community. It makes you feel that you are not alone.” The 27-year-old, best known for his role as Prishen Naidoo in the hit movie Keeping up with the Kandasamys, added that other than their health, men needed to take care of their appearance. Grooming, he said, is essential. “When you groom, you look good, feel confident and it keeps your body clean. I eat healthy, drink lots of water, follow a strict workout programme and try and keep life simple.” Singh added that he preferred using natural remedies on his skin. “By mixing oils and certain vegetable nutrients, I have managed to keep my skin healthy.” He is shooting for the movie Love Lives Here about a modern-age author living in Durban, who is on a journey to discover love and life. “It also tells of how she deals with situations that arise when she meets various characters along the way and makes peace with her past.” Mr India South Africa 2017 finalist, Farouk Satar, said Movember should be more than just a month-long awareness campaign. The 32-year-old Johannesburg dental surgeon and facial aesthetician, who has been supporting the movement since 2013, said although it does create awareness, it could fade into a superficial trend. “Perhaps guys who are showing support by adopting this initiative should also make an effort to meet a man who is experiencing less fortunate issues to get a more empathic mindset and be able to help them. It is also extremely important that men face these problems and not hide behind a macho man attitude.” Satar, who believes in a balanced lifestyle and loves fitness training, makes sure to eat healthy, keep active and be well groomed. “I lead a healthy lifestyle, which means eating healthily and training three times day. This includes cardio and weight training. Also, regular check-ups for different issues at your GP is vital.” Satar added that good skin was important to him. “I strive to keep mine as healthy and attractive as possible. I use a good face wash, moisturiser and I do a chemical peel once a month for maintenance. I love the product range Optiphi and make sure I drink a lot of water and take vitamins.” POST