Johannesburg - Taxi commuters in Tshwane have been warned to find alternative means of transportation on Wednesday as the National Taxi Alliance (NTA) forges ahead with its planned protest against government . The Tshwane Metro Police Department confirmed on Monday that a march that will take place on Wednesday by the National Taxi Alliances. The NTA would march to the ministry of transport and the presidency to present a memorandum of grievan eces in relation to issues affecting the taxi industry. The proposed march was suspended last month after the leadership of NTA acceded to the request from the transport ministry to give negotiations a chance following two meetings in a single week between the parties. The grievances raised by the taxi industry include provisions of the National Land Transport Act, matters related to operations, thIntegrated Public Transport Network or the BRT system, compensation for an operator surrendering an operating license, the Taxi Recapitalisation Programme, and the public transport subsidy. On Wednesday, the marchers will gather at the Old Putco Depot in Marabastad and head to the department of transport to hand over the first memorandum before proceeding to the Union Buildings where they will hand over the second memorandum. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Meanwhile, Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi has urged parents to take precautions and put their children's safety first on Wednesday. The national strike is happening during the examination period and Lesufi said the department has asked all school principals to give inner grades pupils who might not make it to school on Wednesday another opportunity to write any assessment that might be missed. "It is concerning and unfortunate that, such activities continue to be organised during this critical period of examinations in the education environment, actually such activities subvert the country," Lesufi said. "All our Grade 12 learners should be preoccupied by preparations and excelling in their work [rather] than, any other activity that is derailing their efforts and focus thereof." African News Agency