Editor's View - In theory the national crime statistics released by the Minister of Police, Fikile Mbalula, last week were useful in that they helped provide very broad reference points on how crime is affecting the lives of ordinary citizens. The biggest concern, however, is whether such data is reliable, credible and trustworthy. Do they come anywhere near reflecting the true picture? No, says Gareth Newham, head of the crime and justice programme of the Institute for Security Studies, who maintains the stats released are seven months out of date and do not reflect the current crime situation. No, say opposition leaders in the province, who believe the country is in the midst of a crime epidemic in which criminals are way ahead of law enforcement agencies. No, say local residents, who run the gauntlet of almost daily incidents of murder, hijackings, residential robberies as well as attacks on people attending family and religious gatherings. Such crimes have become so endemic, people don’t know where to turn. They are, on the one hand, afraid to leave their homes in case they are attacked on the street or in their cars, but also fear criminals, who now brazenly raid properties and accost residents in the sanctity of their homes. The truth is that the official crime statistics cannot provide an accurate picture of what is happening on the ground because many people, rightly or wrongly, believe the reporting of crime serves little purpose. They believe police lack the will and the capacity to follow up on complaints, conduct thorough investigations and make arrests that lead to convictions. From a national policy perspective, a large part of the blame lies in the failure by government to appoint a credible and permanent national police commissioner who is able to lead the war against crime and motivate our police force to carry out their duties effectively. You cannot put together a viable and coherent strategy to fight crime if your men and women in blue are highly demoralised, poorly paid and hopelessly under-resourced. On a local level, it is critical that communities band together, form partnerships with their local police stations and set up community police forums, street committees and neighbourhood watches in their respective areas. Another effective tool in the war against crime is the setting up of WhatsApp groups to keep people in a neighbourhood informed. And make the effort to report all instances of crime to the police, no matter how insignificant they may appear. Always try to be one step ahead. POST