Durban - The Ramakrishna Centre of South Africa, which provides humanitarian and social service activities in disadvantaged and impoverished communities, celebrates its 75th anniversary this year. 
The non-political and non-sectarian spiritual organisation, based in Glen Anil, also commemorates 10 years of being a branch of the worldwide Ramakrishna Mission head-quartered in West Bengal, India. The centre’s president, Dr Rajesh Singh, said their objective was to spread harmony of religions based on Sri Ramakrishna’s experience and to alleviate human suffering through education, the rendering of medical services and social upliftment projects. “Over the past 75 years, the centre has been propagating the universal message of peace and harmony as demonstrated by Sri Ramakrishna, Holy Mother Sri Sarada Devi and Swami Vivekananda. “It has also contributed significantly to the upliftment of disadvantaged communities through many of our outreach programmes,” Singh said. The programmes include skills development, women empowerment, youth resource development, educational services and HIV/Aids shelters. Singh said poverty alleviation was a key focus area. “Our nutrition programme endeavours to bring some level of relief to families affected by the tough economic times and other circumstances beyond their control. A medical wing provides free services - whereby over 80 medical professionals give off their time and expertise to serve disadvantaged communities in the province. “Last year, 3595 patients were attended to at an estimated value of R2 548 580.” The centre also conducts distance and supported learning courses dealing with Spiritual Heritage and Culture of India. Students receive certificates at the end of the course. Thus far it launched the Swami Vivekananda Centre for Human Excellence aimed at imparting education and values. “Through our programmes, we hope to raise individuals to higher levels of self-confidence, self-esteem and self-reliance to attain the goal of human excellence, peace and spiritual growth.” Among their various contributions to society, the centre opened the Ramakrishna eThembeni Home and Ramakrishna Abalindi Home for terminally ill patients and the Ramakrishna Educational and Skills Development Centre, both in KwaMashu. On December 5 it will launch the Ramakrishna Mzamo Home for children affected by cerebral palsy in Verulam. POST