Liam was spotted at the Gospel Outreach Assembly Church when he fronted an all-girl praise and worship group and talent scouts were tipped off there was a future star in the making. Lynette Ganesan, a fashionista and celebrity image consultant, presented a video of Liam’s performances to pageant executives, who were impressed when they heard tracks which featured songs from the 1950s until present day superstars. “He has a refreshing voice, youthful demeanour and vibrant stage presence. I believe he has a big future in the music industry,” said Ganesan. Liam said he had appeared on stage for the first time at church when he was 3-years-old. “I sang the all-time spiritual favourite 'Tomorrow' and the audience loved it. From that moment on, I grew and made sure that a microphone was near." “I was soon performing at family functions, weddings, birthdays, anniversaries and, of course, at church,” said the Grade 7 pupil, who lives with his parents and 16-year-old brother, Preston, in Moorton. He performed at his grandmother’s 70th birthday party recently, singing 'Let It Be' by the Beatles.   His mother, Belinda, said once she realised her son was keen on singing, she and her businessman husband, Louis, had encouraged him. “He told us this is the future career path he wants to take. But he has to go to school, complete matric and get a degree before he can branch out into his chosen field,” she said. Liam is receiving lessons from jazz artist Natalie Rungan and attends the Glee Academy for guitar lessons. “I acquired my taste for music from my father. He spends most of his spare time listening to a variety of songs. I am hoping that when I complete school, I will be able to travel to the United States to study at one of the top singing schools,” said Liam. He is also looking forward to performing at the Miss Indian KZN pageant on July 29 at the Sastri College Convention Centre, which will be televised on ZEE TV. “I have been told I am the youngest entertainer chosen to perform at the pageant over the last 26 years. This makes it special for me,” said the budding star. Pageant producer Preetha Nanhoo said promising entertainers were given spots to perform as part of their development. “I have been told Liam is a special boy and that he is destined for major stages if he is handled right. It would be a privilege to work with him,” she said. Check out a video of Liam performing on the POST Newspaper Facebook page. POST