London - Women attempting to conceive as they approach their 40s can often struggle, and may need to give Mother Nature a little helping hand. But George Clooney has revealed that his wife Amal, 39, became pregnant with their twins without any fertility treatment. The 56-year-old said it all happened soon after they decided to try for a family to "share" their "luck". "There was an assumption that we didn’t want children," he said. "And then, after the wedding, Amal and I were talking and we just felt we’d gotten very lucky, both of us, and we should share whatever good luck we’ve got. It would seem self-centred to just have that belong to us." But despite the quick conception and problem-free delivery on June 6, it seems the couple are not intending to have any more babies due to the human rights lawyer’s age. When asked if they are planning on adding any more children to their brood, Mrs Clooney shook her head and said: "I’m 39 – I already had them quite late." Speaking about the moment the couple discovered they were having twins during an ultrasound in London, Clooney told the Hollywood Reporter: "He [the doctor] goes, 'Well, there’s one.' And I said, 'Great.' And then he goes, 'And there’s the second one.' And I was like, 'What?' "We just sat there, staring at that piece of paper they give you, and I kept thinking there was a mistake." The Gravity star’s wife gave birth to twins Alexander and Ella in June at St Mary’s in Paddington, West London – the same hospital where the Duchess of Cambridge gave birth to her children. Discussing his role as a first-time parent, the actor admitted that despite having his concerns about raising "compassionate" children, he has been a doting father so far. "The first thing you think is, 'I hope I don’t screw this up,'?" he said. "But I’m a very good diaper guy, which I didn’t know I would be. "My house is filled with the warm sounds of babies crying. You should see when my friends show up and they see me change a diaper, the laughter that comes from them." Daily Mail