Durban - A young Durban pilot who was involved with flying UN peacekeeping forces throughout sub-Saharan Africa might never take to the skies again after a “straightforward” operation to fix his broken arm has left him unable to sit, stand or walk. Kershan Naidoo, 35, who grew up in Phoenix, was finally living the life he’d always dreamt of, but nine months ago, when he flew to Chad in Central Africa, his life changed forever. In December last year, while on a rest break at a French military base, he broke his arm when he fell off a chair. Naidoo’s arm was put in a cast before he returned to Durban to receive proper medical attention. In January he underwent what the family believed would be a “straightforward” procedure to fix his broken arm, but three hours later they were informed he was on life support in ICU. “We initially thought this was a mistake but soon realised this was not the case,” said his sister Livashnee, who lives in the UK. Details of what transpired at the private Durban hospital, she said, are sketchy. “Kershan was given an anaesthetic and before the operation, he suffered hypoxia, which is a lack of oxygen to the brain. It was only at the 12-minute mark that it was noticed Kershan was not breathing in theatre and his heart flat-lined, so he had to be resuscitated.” Her brother, she said, was unresponsive and breathing with the help of a ventilator. They were initially told he had “reasonable” brain activity and it was likely he may never wake up. They were advised to put him in a nursing home. In April, he defied the odds and became responsive. Naidoo opened his eyes and the family would show him photographs and used “yes” and “no” cards to ascertain if he could understand basic questions. He could not speak and his responses were erratic but he would look up and have tears rolling down his face. In May he was transferred to Life Rehab at Entabeni Hospital. “Kershan is now responsive and can say phrases but is completely dependent on others. He has to re-learn how to sit, stand and walk and is undergoing extensive rehabilitation in the form of speech therapy, occupational therapy and physiotherapy,” Livashnee said. “He has to receive botox injections in the muscles around his elbow and wrist area to loosen the muscles.” This, she said, has worked to some extent but he has to wear splints on his arms and wrists to try to straighten them. “He has active movement in his lower limbs but he will have to strengthen those muscles to stand and walk. His upper body is weak.” The incident, she said, had taken a financial and physical toll on their parents, who were on anti-depressant medication. Due to the nature of his job and being based outside South Africa, Naidoo did not have medical aid. His medical bills have sky-rocketed to almost R2.4 million. So far, his family and friends have managed to pay R700000. In addition to this, his rehabilitation expenses cost R120000 for three weeks. It excludes medication. Naidoo now lives with his eldest sister Neloshini in uMhlanga and continues treatment at Headway in Westville. Speaking about his current condition Livashnee said: “Every day is a challenge for Kershan. He undergoes intensive therapy every day and he is still on a lot of medication. At the moment we are trying to strengthen his upper body to get him to sit by himself. Our biggest concern is his wrists and we are working with his medical team to try and fix that. He also has problems with his short-term memory. But despite all these obstacles, Kersh remains optimistic and hopeful. We just take each day as it comes as that is all that we can do right now.” Livashnee said it was unlikely her brother would fly again. “Pilots are given strict medicals annually and it is unlikely Kershan will ever fly again after suffering such a severe injury.” Naidoo grew up in Phoenix. He studied chemical engineering but his heart was never fully in it. Naidoo told his parents about his dream to become a pilot and they took out another bond on their home to fund his pilot training at 43rd Air School in Bisho. After qualifying he began training students at Virginia Air School in Durban and Superior Flight Academy in Johannesburg. He then moved to Mali and was involved with the UN, flying their peacekeeping forces throughout sub-Saharan Africa. The Kershan’s Wings Facebook page was set up to fund-raise and in the first month of selling raffle tickets generated a total of R120000 from over a thousand followers. POST