Durban - One look at Deepa Karuna Sooknandan makes it hard to believe almost two years ago she was fighting for her life at a Chinese hospital after falling from the fifth floor of a medical university. Describing herself as a walking miracle, the 21-year-old, of Isipingo, said she believed God had given her a new lease on life. Despite some memory loss and a slight slur when she speaks, Sooknandan has been given a clean bill of health. “I cannot remember much from 2014 through to 2015. Everything from China is a blur. I cannot even remember how I fell. All I remember is waking up in the hospital with my sister, Namitha, by my side.” Read:  Durban girl in China fall tragedy After matriculating at Isipingo Secondary School in 2014 with an A aggregate, Sooknandan applied to study medicine at several universities but was not accepted. She was left with no choice but to study abroad. On December 29, 2015, a day before she was scheduled to return home for the holidays, the then 19-year-old fractured her jaw, pelvis and ankle after falling from the fifth floor of the Dalian Medical University in Liaoning, China. At the time, her brother, Deepak, described her condition as “critical”. She had a contraption holding her hip, ankle bone and pelvis together. Sooknandan spent 15 days of the month she stayed in hospital in a coma. “When I woke up, I remember being in pain. I had machines strapped to me and I could not understand what was happening. I only remembered things from childhood. I felt like I was still a 4-year-old.” She was discharged after a month as she could not afford further treatment. “I could not walk and was confined to a bed. My sister and I moved into a hotel, where we stayed for two months, while my family tried to raise money to bring me home. I survived those months only on pain medication. “In April last year, with the help of donors, I returned home and was admitted to Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital. Through physiotherapy, I started gaining mobility.” She made a speedy recovery over the year. “God has given me a new lease on life and it is only through prayer that I am here. I am grateful to everyone that contributed to my recovery.” Her mother, Roshnee, said: “It is all thanks to God that she is here today.” Sooknandan was influenced by her late dad, Deepchand, to become a doctor and still intends joining the medical field but this time specialising in neurology. POST