But it was not to be for the Campbell's Town boy whose inexplicable death, following what appeared to be a minor hand injury, has baffled and devastated his family and friends. He died at Netcare Umhlanga Hospital on Thursday, minutes before an operation. The Grade 5 pupil at Hopeville Primary School had slipped and fallen at home on Saturday, 
September 2. Stricken by grief as they mourn the death of their only child, Colin and Reshma Kistensamy declined to say what they believed could have 
gone wrong. But Benny Maistry, the family’s spokesperson and Hopeville principal, said that after his fall Prashantan seemed fine and didn't seem to need medical attention. “He came to school on Monday and, while writing, he complained of pain in the fingers of his right hand. His parents took him to a GP for a check-up and they were referred to an orthopaedic surgeon at the hospital.” The boy, he said, was booked for a minor surgical procedure. “Prashantan was given anaesthetic and a few minutes later the doctor told the family their son had died. He had not even done the operation. The family were inconsolable.” Maistry arrived at the hospital minutes after Prashantan’s death. “I saw his parents and family members gathered around him. They were devastated. He looked like he was sleeping. My heart sank, knowing we had lost a child,” he said. Apart from leaving a void in his parents’ lives, Prashantan’s death has also left them with many unanswered questions. “What could have caused his death? What did he go through in those last moments? It was only a simple operation,” said Maistry. He described the boy as polite and respectful. “He was a bubbly child, who excelled academically. He had a bright future. To honour his memory, we held a memorial at school. Both pupils and teachers are devastated by his death.” Fellow pupils spoke of their love for him. “He was a bubbly and wonderful person who loved Star Wars. He would talk about it all the time,” said one of them. “I am so sad he is gone.” Another described him as always happy. “He was always smiling and laughing. Prashantan was also very generous.” At his funeral on Saturday, the beating of drums echoed loudly as friends and family paid their final respects. The general manager of Netcare Umhlanga Hospital, Marc van Heerden, told POST that the doctors, management and staff there were devastated by Prasanthan’s unexpected passing. “We have met with the Kistensamy family and wish again to convey our deepest condolences to them. Our thoughts are with the family at this incredibly difficult time. “We would like to assure the family that the doctors and nurses did everything humanly possible to save Prashantan’s life,” he said. “We cannot speculate on possible causes and naturally will be co-operating fully with the inquest proceedings. “Counselling services have been provided to the Kistensamy family as well as to staff members.” Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said an inquest had been opened at the Durban North police station. POST