Durban - Living in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) for over eight years, 38-year-old Navashini Prakash says that even though she misses certain aspects of her former life in Durban, the standard of living and safety in her current setting, makes her feel content. Navashini is a senior sonographer and is married to Nieresh, who works at Gasco Administrations. They have a 10-year-old son, Cahil, and currently live in the country’s capital, Abu Dhabi. Speaking about why she left South Africa, she says: “I moved here for many reasons. Firstly, I worked in Abu Dhabi from 2004 to 2006 and really enjoyed the work environment, the great tax-free salary and the opportunity to travel the world at affordable prices. The safe lifestyle and cost of living, however, encouraged our decision to come back after having our first child in 2007 (in South Africa).” She received a job offer in 2009 and decided to take the chance and relocate as a family. The Chatsworth-born mother says life in the UAE compared to Durban is much safer. “We feel safe and secure, which is most important. We don’t have to worry about locking our home while we sleep. You can even leave your car idling with the air conditioner on while shopping. “You can wear all of your most expensive jewellery at once and as a female, walk alone at midnight on the street or use public transport. No one will interfere with you. You can even go camping safely.” She says the cost of food, petrol, cars and utility bills are affordable. “The internet is affordable compared to SA. We cannot imagine our lives without it now.” The earning potential, she says, is high. “If you look at the current exchange rate of the UAE durham to the rand today is one dirham for R3.70. After paying your bills and credit cards, you can still afford to save 50 to 60% of your salary.” She says school fees though were incredibly expensive but she does not mind paying for education. Family and friends remain her main connection to Durban and there are things she misses. “I miss the beaches with big foamy waves, a bunny chow, Star mutton polony, Eskort pork sausages, samp, the flea market at The Workshop and pickles. I miss barbecues and potjies with family and friends, Suncoast and the Wild Coast Sun, great nightclubs and my favourite hot spots like Joe Cools, Spur in Malvern and the Blue Lagoon.” She says a Durban breyani with potatoes and lentils was irreplaceable. “It’s the best compared to (those we’ve had in) all the countries we have travelled to.” POST