Durban - The Clare Estate Umgeni Hindu Crematorium Society's five year atmospheric emission licence was renewed earlier this month and will enable them to continue with operations at its site in New Germany Road. The society's spokesperson, Satish Dhupelia, said the licence was a recent requirement and that their first such licence was issued in January 2015. The renewal licence was issued on December 1 and is valid until June 1922. “However, the licence can be revoked or suspended if any criteria is not met. The society will, therefore, conduct regular testing and submit reports to ensure we are always compliant,” said Dhupelia. He added that the licence was granted when an organisation adhered to the stringent rules and regulations governing the use of a crematorium - after extensive testing and reports have been made. “The testing costs are high and necessary for the crematorium to continue with its operations and therefore the committee relies on donations and the goodwill of the community.” He said there were numerous deadlines to meet and conditions to follow to ensure the crematorium was 100% compliant with the eThekwini Municipality's health and emission regulations. “Plans are in place to modernise the cremators and to ensure that the operations of the crematorium will be eco-friendly and environmentally compliant. We, together with the community, want to ensure that visits and use of this facility will be hassle free and in accordance with all rules and regulations. “We also plan to meet with all the relevant stake holders on a regular basis to keep them informed of developments and how we can achieve our goal of being environmentally friendly and compliant.” Speaking about the lack of burial space in the city, Dhupelia said that to keep up with this demand and to maintain standards as prescribed by authorities, the society planned to upgrade its current equipment. “Having the facility is important but it is equally important to ensure everything is working well and that all emission control laws are being adhered to. "Regular training of staff and maintenance is undertaken to ensure the facility remains of optimum use to the community. "Testing costs are really exorbitant though and the society welcomes any donors to assist with its projects.” Up to 10 cremations are done a day at the crematorium, which started in 1930. POST