“We have no holiday and don't get to eat luxurious meals. Christmas just means we have a better chance of not being harassed for our blankets and money by thugs who roam the streets. They will be celebrating with their loved ones,” said Allen Naidoo.  Sitting outside the Denis Hurley Centre, waiting for hot meals to be prepared and served by volunteers, the 23-year-old said he had been living on the streets for two years. “I lived in Redhill but now live on the streets. I have to look out for myself and protect myself from the people around here. We are therefore fortunate to have this centre where we get to bath and eat.” Kajal Womesarparsad, 20, said Christmas did not mean anything to her as she did not have a support structure.  “We don't have a place to call home or family to go to. We are suffering on the streets, so Christmas Day will be an ordinary day of survival for us.”  The centre's director, Raymond Perrier, said Christmas should be about reflecting on one's life and giving back to those in need. “At the centre, we see hundreds of people daily, who come over to share a meal and just be safe from all the outside influences.  “While families are breaking bread, these people will sadly be on their own. I encourage communities to do something different this year, especially for those living on the streets. Give them your time. They are lonely and to have someone listen to their stories and show some sort of interest lifts their spirits.”  Bryan Lewis and Tsilala Brock of the US, who are holidaying in the city, volunteered at the centre last week.  “It's our third day in the country and we wanted to help and provide a service to those in need,” said Lewis from 
Detroit.  “While we were preparing the meals, we got to chat to a few people and it's empowering to know we are doing such a service for people less fortunate than us.” Brock from New York added: “Knowing I can serve someone else is an awesome feeling. In this situation, people who don't even have anything are showing us so much of kindness and respect. It makes us remember that no matter the circumstances, playing your part is a part of humanity.” The centre feeds homeless people throughout the week except on Mondays. 