But swimming is fun and has health and safety benefits, as many parent can attest to.  Samona Murugan said she was willing to try anything to help her baby Cade Carter Joyce’s digestive problems at 13 weeks old.  “Cade had 12 paediatric visits, was placed on antibiotics and probiotics and had more than five different formulas to help ease his digestive problem. We were giving him Buscopan infant almost daily, until a friend suggested we try hydrotherapy,” said Murugan. Hydrotherapy involves the use of water for pain relief and treatment. It stimulates blood circulation and also treats symptoms of certain diseases. “With Cade being three-months-old we were wary, but once we got into it, we noticed an improvement after about three months and would only give him Buscopan infant once a week, if needed.” The 34-year-old mother, from Pretoria, said her son was now healthier and happier.  “We noticed his hand and eye co-ordination had also improved. I never believed a 
simple form of exercise could help Cade.” Former Umkomaas resident Diane Naidoo enrolled her seven-month-old daughter, Olivia, at infant swim classes with the intention of teaching the toddler safety skills.  “I want her to grow up being confident in the water and have basic skills should she ever be in danger in the water. The classes teach them to hold their breath, swim to the side and hold on,” she said. Naidoo, 32, who now lives in London, said Olivia started swimming lessons about four months ago.  “She has always been a water baby and handles going underwater very well. When she hears ‘Olivia. Ready. Go under’, she closes her eyes and holds her breath.” Infant swimming, said Naidoo, was common in London with parents being placed on waiting lists to enrol their tots for classes.  Swimmer Zenobia Govender wanted both her daughters to get into the water as soon as possible.  Now Zahra, three, and Reeha, one, cannot get enough of the swimming pool.  The Isipingo resident said Zahra started lessons at age one and Reeha much earlier. “Reeha was a colic baby and I wanted to find conventional methods to use instead of medication. I began researching and swimming popped up,” said Govender.  “Because she was only four-weeks-old, we sent for her hydrotherapy first as she was still too young for the pool.”  She said all parents should consider sending their toddlers for classes.  “It gives parents peace of mind knowing that if anything happens, their child knows how to react and keep afloat until an adult can get to them.” Her girls practise between two to four times a week. 