Durban - Indian cricket team captain Virat Kohli and Bollywood actress Anushka Sharma, India’s most-watched couple, sealed their relationship with a wedding in Florence, Italy, among family and friends on Monday. 
“Today we have promised each other to be bound in love forever. We are truly blessed to share the news with you,” Kohli and Sharma posted on their social media accounts. “This beautiful day will be made more special with the love and support of our family, of fans and well-wishers. Thank you for being such an important part of our journey,” the statement read. A string of congratulatory messages from the film and sports fraternities followed the official announcement. The wedding was solemnised as per Hindu rituals with the bride and groom looking resplendent in ensembles by celebrated couturier Sabyasachi Mukherjee. For the big day, Sharma wore a pale-pink lehenga with Renaissance embroidery in vintage English colours embellished with silver-gold metal thread, pearls and beads. The bridal jewellery, hand-crafted with syndicate uncut diamonds, pale-pink spinel and baroque Japanese cultured pearls, was by the Sabyasachi Heritage Jewellery collection. The groom looked smart in an ivory raw silk sherwani hand-embroidered in a vintage Benarasi pattern, with an old rose-silk kota safa. The couple, who have been together for four years, are said to have chosen the luxury heritage resort Borgo Finocchieto for their nuptials. Sharma and Kohli, both 29, set tongues wagging about their wedding when they were seen leaving the Mumbai and Delhi airports respectively with their family members last week. The rumours about their wedding had gathered steam when Kohli asked for rest during the ODI and T20Is against Sri Lanka.  He will join the team for the South Africa series, which starts on December 30. But before that, the couple will be hosting a reception in New Delhi for relatives on December21, followed by a reception for industry friends and cricketers in Mumbai on December 26. They will be moving to their new home in Worli, Mumbai, this month. The couple will then travel to SA where Kohli will start preparing for the upcoming series and Sharma will spend New Year’s Eve with him. POST