The Grade 9 pupil at Danville Park Girls High went on to represent the country and win silver medals for ball and ribbon team routines in 2016 at both the Commonwealth Championships and the African Championships in Namibia.  She won gold medals for hoop, club and ribbon individual routines at the Stellenbosch International in July this year.  Q: When did you start practising rhythmic gymnastics and what is it that got you interested in the sport?
A: I started fun gym as an extra mural at school in Grade 1. Then the coach called my parents to encourage me to join Ocean Rhythmic Gymnastics as she thought I showed some talent. I joined the next year when I was 7, and Robyn Baker has guided my development since.  Q: What motivates you to keep at it?
A: I enjoy the spirit, support and camaraderie in the team. Also, the sacrifice my parents make and the time they give for my involvement in the sport. Q: It appears to be a graceful sport which requires body contortions. Does this come easily to you or does it need lots of practise?
A: It does come naturally to me, but rhythmic gymnastics always demands a lot of practise. I have trained in the classical Indian dance form Bharata Natyam and this does contribute.    Q: There are various disciplines within the sport. Is there an aspect of rhythmic gymnastics that interests you the most?
A: The flexibility aspect is my strength.  Q: What are your achievements to date?
A: Silver medals in the Junior Commonwealth and Africa Champs.
Overall gold in the Stellenbosch International Club Competition. 
I placed in the first three overall for five consecutive years at South African Champs.
I was in four winning KZN teams for group routines at the South African Champs. Q: Eastern European countries seem to have mastered the art of rhythmic gymnastics. How far behind are we?
A: We are far behind in performance and national support. It’s a core sport in some of those European countries and therefore gets the funding and exposure that sports like soccer, rugby and cricket get in South Africa.  Q: Do you have aspirations of one day representing your country at the Olympics?
A: If one has to have the Olympics as a goal, then that demands way more than what I give the sport currently. So the answer is no. 
However, I would have liked to have been part of the squad for the upcoming Junior Olympics, but I turn 16 next year so I miss out on that opportunity.  Q: What is your training schedule like?
A: Three hours a day, three days a week straight from school, increasing to four to five days a week before competitions. We train through all our holidays but our coaches incorporate a fun outing.  Q: Are there any difficulties you face in preparing for competitions?
A: Balancing the time between academics and competitions like the provincials and nationals, as exams are always at the same time.  Q: Are you involved in any other sporting activity?
A: I represent my school for water polo. Being involved in rhythmic gymnastics does not allow me time for much else. In my junior school years, I managed to play hockey and swim as well.  Q: Do you follow a strict diet to keep your body in shape to excel in the sport?
A: I don’t follow a very strict diet but I try to eat healthily and keep a balance. 
In preparation for competitions I get more focused and strict with my diet.  Q: What advice would you give anyone wanting to participate in the sport?
A: Because of the time the sport demands for training and practise, you have to be prepared to give up or have less time for other sports or other stuff, but if you love what you do, it’s worth the sacrifice.  POST 
