AHMED KATHRADA AHMED Kathrada or "Uncle Kathy" as he was fondly known, died on March 28 at the age of 87 after a brief illness. The anti-apartheid struggle veteran, who was born on August 21, 1929, started his political career at the age of 12 with the Young Communist League. Kathrada was one of three surviving Rivonia trialists, who stood trial for treason against the apartheid government between 1963 and 1964. Kathrada, who was a good friend of Nelson Mandela, was sentenced to life in prison and hard labour at Robben Island in 1964. Upon his release in 1989, he became a member of the South African Parliament and after elections served one of a five year term acting as Mandela’s parliamentary counsellor. Kathrada was also the chairperson of the Robben Island Museum Council until 2006. Months prior to his passing, he hosted a group of youths on Robben Island and shared his experiences with them. RANJITH KALLY LEGENDARY anti-apartheid photographer Ranjith Kally died aged 91 on June 6 at his daughter's home in Johannesburg. Kally, who was a former POST photo-journalist, was born on November 26, 1925, in Reunion, Isipingo, and became a photographer after working at a shoe factory for 15 years. He was well known in the media industry for being daring enough to push the boundaries to get the shot. His photographs have claimed space in galleries around the world, including New York and the Goodman Gallery in Johannesburg. One of his celebrated shots, is a picture of Dr Monty Naicker, Mandela, Dr Yusuf Dadoo and other members of the Natal Indian Congress and the ANC in 1963. KAY MOONSAMY STALWART Kay Moonsamy died aged 90 on June 21 after a long illness. Moonsamy, who was born in Overport in 1926, got involved in politics at the age of 16, joining the Natal box, broom and bush workers union. He was part of the Natal Indian Congress, the South African Communist Party, ANC and the South African Congress of Trade Unions. Moonsamy’s dedication and commitment to the liberation struggle was equal to that of Mandela - as he spent 15 years in exile from 1965. During his exile, he still served as a member of the ANC, talking to other groups in Botswana, Swaziland, Zambia, India and the Soviet Union until he returned to the country in 1999 and took a seat in Parliament. Moonsamy’s hard work and dedication did not go unnoticed. In 2015, he was awarded the order of Luthuli by President Jacob Zuma. TREVOR BONHOMME TREVOR John Bonhomme died on July 29 at the age of 75. Bonhomme, who was born in Overport in 1942, was known for going the extra mile to promote the wellbeing of the poor, discriminated against and marginalised for more than 55 years. He grew up in a mixed neighbourhood and over the years, became aware of the political oppression people of colour were subjected to. In the 1960s, he started taking control after noticing how little he and his colleagues were earning at an upholstery factory. This was the beginning of his selfless work. In the 1970s, he began his community work with the underprivileged and deprived people in the area. He could not stand people not receiving water and living in poverty, so he formed a community group. At the time of his leadership, he joined the ANC. After 1994, he became a local councillor but never deserted his people and continued to fight for them. DEES SHARMA ROOPANAND DEES Sharma Roopanand died on August 12 aged 75 after a long illness. The founder of the legendary band, Dukes Combo, dedicated 58 years of his life to the group - specialising in playing Latin American, jazz and ballroom music. Sharma, who was born 1942, was a master saxophonist in the group that has been running for six decades. According to the band’s manager, Anthony Joseph, although Sharma retired from the band in 2012, he was always present during rehearsals and was dedicated to attending every rehearsal - to either add feedback or show his support to the members. During his funeral, his body was led into the hall by past and present members of the group, playing their instruments. GOVIN REDDY NEWS of South African media icon, Govin Reddy’s passing after a long illness, shocked people on October 13. Reddy, who played an enormous role in the transformation of media in the country, died aged 74. Reddy, who was born in Wyebank, on June 16, 1943, held many titles over the years from chief executive officer of SABC Radio in 1997, to the chief executive of the Mail & Guardian until 2002. In the early 1960s, Reddy was a political activist, running a bookshop and library focusing on liberation politics. He also went into temporary exile in the 1980s for nine years fleeing to Harare, Zimbabwe. LALOO CHIBA DOYENNE of the South African Struggle for freedom Laloo Chiba died at the age of 87 on December 8 after suffering a mild heart attack a few days prior. He was discharged from hospital and later passed away at his home in Lenasia. The Gujarati-origin stalwart was a former platoon commander in the military wing of the ANC and was sentenced to 18 years imprisonment on Robben Island in the Little Rivonia trial. He was also a founder member of the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation. He regarded Kathrada as his best friend and was inconsolable upon his death in March. Chiba spent his last months continuing his work at the foundation, which is committed to fighting for non-racialism. Among his last projects was joining hundreds of South Africans nationwide in a fast to express solidarity with the people of Palestine. Chiba’s death brought to an end an era in South Africa's democracy for the people of Lenasia, where he, Kathrada, and another late stalwart, Shirish Nanabhai, were well respected. POST