Durban - Durban comedian Melvyn David will always be remembered for his calm demeanor and outstandingly warm personality, said Kumseela Naidoo,director at Dingalings Production.  The 32-year-old, who was part of the comedy group for 7 years, was killed this week in a car crash on the N2 Southbound.  He is believed to have crashed into a stationery vehicle on the N2 Southbound, near Westwood Mall during the early house of Thursday morning. Read: Dingalings comedian the 'Funny Guy' killed in collision David had been travelling back to his home, in Sherwood after dropping of friends in Phoenix. Naidoo told POST they were in absolute shock when they received the news.  "We spent Wednesday evening at his church's annual Carols by Candlelight event.  "Melvyn had invited the team to attend the event at Embassy Church and it was amazing. He had written the script for a play which was
performed by the youth at the church. "However, It was so uncanny as the title of the play was 'Going Home' and the message was that people should live correctly, help their
fellow men at all times, as they will one day have to answer to their maker. Melvyn was very religious and devoted to his church and his pastor," said Naidoo.  "If we were performing in Newcastle on a Saturday evening, he would leave straight after the event. No matter how many times we asked him to stay, he would jump into his car and return to Durban, so he could be at his church for the early morning service," added Naidoo.  Naidoo added that David was very dedicated towards his role in the group. "He was always willing to learn and take advice. He never became angry, or sulked when he was corrected. We considered him the baby of
the group and took him as a son. He considered my  husband, Koobeshen, who is also a member of the group, as a mentor." David was also known to keep his audience in stitches. "He played this silly character, but he played it so well, people were enthralled by his performance. But, when he sang, he had the most
melodious voice, that left everyone in awe. He was a beautiful soul, it is funny yet so true, that God always takes the best ones first,"said Naidoo David's funeral is expected to take place on Saturday at the Embassy Church in Sherwood.  KZN police spokesman, Captain Nqobile Gwala, said a case of culpable homicide is being investigated by Sydenham SAPS.  "It is alleged that at 02:00 on Thursday, on the N2 south bound, a silver Kia vehicle was involved in a collision with a truck." Gwala said David died at the scene.  POST   
