Durban - The residents of Woodview, in Phoenix, have been encouraged to unite in their fight against the proposed installation of a cellular transmission mast at a primary school in the area. 
While Woodview Primary has apparently told the community it has followed the necessary protocol to get the 30m mast installed, many say the recent revelation is news to them. They say no amount of money given to the school can compensate for the harmful effects of radiation on their health and that of their children. Residents and parents are demanding the project be canned and have until December 4 to submit their objections to the eThekwini Municipality, which put forward the proposal to the school. After word on the mast went viral on social media recently, mother of two Varsha Heeralal said she felt deceived. “My children attend the school and my parents live nearby. Clearly, no research was done on these masts, which let off radiation and cause cancer and tumours,” said Heeralal, who added that her children had not come home with a notice from the school. “I want to know when, where and who decided to install a mast at the school without the consent of parents and the community. We were never consulted.” Resident Devon Singh said he feared the principal had not considered the dangers before apparently agreeing to the installation. “When they get see a way in which to get an income, they look past the dangers,” said Singh. “We do not know what amount of radiation will be let out. I live 700m away from the school. It concerns me.” The chairperson for the KZN Parents’ Association, Vee Gani, said the school would receive much-needed money for the mast but still needed to follow procedure. “A lot of schools look at the money part of it. Some get a large amount, like R50000, then a monthly fee of about R4500. It’s a monthly income for them to function,” said Gani. “So in this regard, I understand. However, studies online suggest that these masts can affect people after a prolonged time and you cannot gamble with lives. “The school needs to consider if the harm outweighs the money, then they rather not have the mast.” Theo Pillay, of the Woodview Residents’ Association, said they were still trying to establish if residents and parents had been consulted or advised about the installation. “We have been given to understand that the school and school governing body (SGB) consulted with parents. However, we ask that school management and the education circuit of Phoenix shed more light on this.” He said until this was done, they were distributing flyers requesting parents and residents take a stand against the installation. Phoenix councillor, Lyndal Singh, said residents needed to rally together to make their voices heard. “Many residents have approached me to complain about the mast but they need to lodge a formal written objection by December 4. If people want to object, they must base their objections on town planning grounds and not on emotional ones. “Residents cannot just say the mast will devalue property or cause health problems. They need to provide evidence of this. The city uses international standards to justify these things. “Residents must get estate agents to show how it would affect property values and health specialists to make submissions about health issues.” Singh said she had written to the SGB and principal. “The principal assured me they followed protocol and posted letters to parents to object or accept the mast. “He said they also issued a notice in mainstream papers which, as far as I am concerned, excludes an entire group of people who cannot afford to buy the paper. It is so unfortunate that something like this is happening.” Singh believes the school is not taking into consideration the health of the children. “These masts emit radiation and are a health hazard. Having a clear network signal does not come close to the importance of these young lives. This mast cannot be erected.” According to activist group Electromagnetic Radiation South Africa, prolonged exposure to electromagnetic fields has a negative impact on people’s health. Activist Desmond D’Sa said cellular masts should not be installed near schools or homes. “They cause cancer and with cancer being so rife in the country, this should never be allowed. The amount that the school is getting is peanuts compared to the damage it will cause. The public needs to put a stop to this because little lives will have to pay.” The spokesperson for the KZN Department of Education, Sihle Mlotshwa, said they were unaware of the matter. “If the school is proceeding with any form of action that affects the learners without the consent of the parents, this is highly unfortunate. As soon as something like this emerges, it should be discussed to find a solution that is beneficial to everyone. We will address the matter.” The school’s principal said he had sent through a notice via community papers and would support the views of the majority. “Woodview Primary School supported a request from the service provider for due processes to be followed for the approval of a mast installation in a designated area within the school yard. However, Woodview Primary will support the outcome of the mass general comments of the public.” The municipality had not responded at the time of print. Objections can be lodged by e-mailing adele.bothma@durban.gov.za POST