DUrban - There has been a hive of activity at the Singh home in Croftdene, Chatsworth, since the start of the month and momentum has grown as Christmas approaches.  Abigail Singh, an occupational nurse, said Christmas was a special time of year as it commemorated the birth of Jesus and was an opportunity to give thanks.  “It is about giving thanks to God for being with us throughout the year.” Singh, her husband Navin, a human resource manager, and their three children, Acquilla Quartez, Jetrou Jabez and Zebedee Ira kicked off the festive season by decorating their Christmas tree.  “Every year without fail we get together to put up the tree on December 1.  “It’s a fun way to bond and usher in the Christmas spirit.  “We also make our own ornaments for the tree and do a secret Santa draw.” In the second week of the month, the family decorates the outside of their home.  “It’s nothing extreme. We put lights around our house to create that festive atmosphere in the neighbourhood.” From December 15, the couple take leave from work and this offers an opportunity for them to unwind.  “We book a holiday on the South Coast for a few days and generally return home by December 22, just in time to attend our church’s Carols by Candlelight.  “On Christmas Eve we exchange our secret Santa gifts and I prep the food and desserts for lunch the next day.” Her menu will include roast lamb and chicken, prawn and crab curries and a variety of desserts. “I will be up at the crack of dawn to get the food ready and lay out our table for lunch.  “Once everyone wakes up, we sit around the tree in our PJs and open gifts and take photographs.”  The family then prepares for church.  “Before we leave, we have a morning snack with chocolate milkshake. That has become a tradition.”  After the church service, lunch is served and they spend the remainder of the day visiting family.  “Christmas is a time for families to get together. We chat, laugh and basically spend a blessed time in each other’s company.” After December 25, they will head on a mini holiday to Johannesburg and are scheduled to return to usher in the New Year.  Singh said it was vital to give back and through their church, they helped collect and distribute food hampers for the needy.  POST