Durban - Dinner was about to be served at the Stanger Siva Sungum community hall on Sunday when buckets full of human faeces were flung inside, ruining an event for which guests had paid up to R1000 a seat. 
Mopping up the filthy floors was a disgusting task, but the hall manager bears no ill feelings towards the mob that gatecrashed the private fund-raising dinner, apparently targeting Pravin Gordhan, the former finance minister who was billed as guest speaker. Marie Pather said he felt no resentment towards the group of alleged ANCYL members, who hurled buckets of raw sewage into the hall prior to Gordhan addressing guests of the Active Citizens Movement (ACM). Pather and a cleaning team spent the better part of the evening - and most of Monday - ensuring the venue was washed down and disinfected. “I’m not mad at what happened. I hold no ill feelings against those who did this but I just hope it never happens again,” he said. While the ANCYL in KwaZulu-Natal have distanced themselves from the poo and rock throwing shenanigans, in which private property was destroyed, the event organisers and guests are furious. Many protesters were seen holding placards that targeted Gordhan. Some read: “PG - a sell-out of the struggle”; “ANC is better off without traitors”; and “PG is the co-author of The President’s Keepers” - the explosive book by former journalist Jacques Pauw that lifted the lid on alleged government corruption and those protecting President Jacob Zuma. The mob stormed the hall, damaging property, grabbing refreshments and throwing food onto the floor. An irate Judge Thumba Pillay, of the ACM, said: “This is hooliganism at its worst. It is something you don’t expect from politically conscience people and totally against what the Bill of Rights stands for. “It is absolutely disgusting. The ANC at national level should condemn this violation of basic human rights. It is criminal behaviour and the culprits responsible should be identified and charged.” Ashok Chandika, of the ACM and the Merebank Justice Network, condemned the mob’s actions. “It is quite rich that something like this is coming from the youth league, who seem to show contempt to a leader that comes from their own organisation.” In April, a memorial in honour of Struggle veteran Ahmed Kathrada was disrupted after youth league members disrupted Gordhan from completing his speech at Sastri Hall in Durban. “It just reinforces that the court needs to get action on this type of matter,” said Chandika. The president of the South African Hindu Maha Sabha, Ashwin Trikamjee, labelled the incident “deplorable”. “This demonstrates raw behaviour by people who don’t understand democracy and freedom of expression. Regrettably, SAPS appears to have failed to act when it ought to have. This demonstrates further the breakdown of law and order in our country. We hope the people in power will ensure this type of blatant hooliganism does not repeat itself.” The youth league’s regional secretary, Musa Zondi, described Sunday’s incident as “barbaric”. He said the person who claimed responsibility in media reports and purported to be the secretary of the league branch in KwaDukuza, was unknown to them. “Those who are doing these heinous acts in the name of our party must be stopped.” While no arrests were made, Zondi said he hoped those responsible were caught. Relating what had happened, Marie Pather said: “Everything was going well and dinner was just about to be served when the group arrived carrying buckets of what looked like drain water. “They threw it in the hall and it ruined most of the decor. Others ran inside and grabbed refreshments and threw food onto the floor. Some even began fighting with guests. Security and police did not do much. We eventually managed to push them out.” Gordhan, who was with his family, was taken away by his bodyguards shortly after the chaos erupted. He condemned the disruption, calling it a “violent and intolerant conduct”. “Clearly, it appears that some people related to the issue or the current political events unfolding in the country, had organised a group of young people to violently disrupt this event,” he said. “This kind of intolerance will only serve to alienate more of the public.” Organiser Haroon Mohammedy said the matter would be taken up with “higher authorities”. POST