Durban - From London to Texas to South Africa, Durban-born Michelle Benjamin’s artwork has been auctioned for humanitarian causes and, in appreciation of her goodwill, a day in her honour was celebrated in the US on Friday. 
Harris County Precinct One, in Texas, celebrated Michelle Benjamin Day after she auctioned artwork in the US state.  The proceeds went to the Knysna Disaster Fund and for a campaign ending “lunch shaming” in Dallas. “Lunch shaming is a problem in Dallas where kids who cannot pay for their lunch at schools are embarrassed by staff, teachers or fellow pupils,” Benjamin said. “I auctioned my piece, The Walk Of Freedom, which went for $10000 (R134940), which will be distributed to various schools to end lunch shaming.” Benjamin, of George in the Western Cape, also auctioned a picture of Nelson Mandela, whose four-year death anniversary was commemorated yesterday, and another of a Zimbabwean woman. They each sold for $500 (R6750). “Commissioner Rodney Ellis bid $500 for the Madiba piece and the mayor of North Dallas, Cedric Davis, got the Zimbabwe artwork. "The proceeds were donated to the Knysna Disaster Fund.” The Knysna Fire Disaster Relief Fund was established to meet the immediate needs of thousands of residents affected by the devastating fire that raged through the municipal district in June. Shortly after last Tuesday’s auction, Benjamin was read a citation by Ellis, which revealed that December 1 would be named in her honour. “It is amazing that my art has opened doors for charities to raise large amounts of money to promote and fight for worthy causes. "I was honoured to know a day had been set aside to recognise me,” said Benjamin. “My life as an international digital artist has made it possible for me to be a human being who helps, protects and preserves on a global level.” Benjamin, who dreams of building an art school in Phoenix, Durban, will soon auction another piece in aid of providing 60 children in Mossel Bay with iPads, so they can learn digital art. She intends holding classes for them next year. Benjamin started auctioning her artwork in 2012. POST