Opinion - Christmas, the most popular Christian festival, commemorates the birth of Jesus, who Christians proclaim as the Christ, the anointed one, introducing a new era of liberation from physical and spiritual tyranny. 
Although the exact date of his birth is unknown, the stories of his birth are full of mythological symbolism; retold yearly, transmitting the faith to each new generation. The life and teachings of Jesus are recorded in the four Gospels of Matthew, Mark, Luke and John, but only Matthew and Luke recount stories surrounding his birth. Matthew’s Gospel, emphasising Jesus as king of the Jews, tells of his birth heralded by a bright star over Bethlehem, the city of David, greatest of Jewish kings, his ostensible ancestor. The three mysterious “wise men” from the East came bearing costly gifts to pay homage; their pilgrimage, or quest, a reminder of humanity’s search for enlightenment and new life. From this story, the custom of Christmas gifts originates. The shepherds at the birth in the stable, in Luke’s account, highlight the concern of Jesus for the poor - his identification with the humble as well as the rich and powerful. Soon after birth, his life was threatened by the malevolent, oppressive forces of King Herod, of the occupying Roman power, forcing his parents to flee, until the danger had passed, into exile in Egypt from whence the Hebrews had escaped from slavery centuries before. Reminiscent of Ravana in the Hindu Diwali story and Antiochus in the Jewish Chanukah festival, these demonic kings attempted in vain to quash the power of goodness. In most religious traditions, including the Christian, annual festivals of light, such as the Diwali festival and Chanukah, celebrate the powerful significance and symbolism of light - dispelling darkness, ignorance and fear, illuminating, revitalising, and revealing the beauty of the world around us. Commemorations of these festivals, also known as fire festivals, feature candles, lamps and lanterns in red, gold and orange, representing warmth and vitality, reminders of the age-old yearning for the flourishing of virtue, overcoming the demons of darkness and destruction. Ancient fire festivals were held at the two solstices, mid-summer and mid-winter - the great turning points of the sun’s apparent course through the sky. They were recognised as moments in the year when the heat of the sun begins to wane or wax again. Solstices were celebrated with great bonfires and singing, dancing and feasting. Many centuries before the birth of Jesus of Nazareth, the days around December 22 to 25 were celebrated in Europe as the winter solstice, the darkest time of the year, the shortest days and longest nights, when people wondered whether the life-giving sun would ever warm up again. Ancient pagans lived in close proximity to nature, intensely aware of the awesome power of the natural world, recognising the necessity of living in harmony with nature. They watched with wonder the movement of the sun, moon and planets, knowing that the well-being and fertility of crops, animals and humans depended on this orderly turning of the great wheel of the year. Numerous familiar Christmas customs have connections with its pre-Christian, pagan origins. The yule log, associated with the ancient 12-day mid-winter celebrations, was a large oak log - very slow-burning - part of the bonfire brought inside on Christmas eve and placed in the hearth to warm and enlighten the home at this cold and dark time. It might glow for months, bestowing its healing, protective powers, especially against lightning. Finally, the ashes were collected and scattered over the fields at sowing time - encouraging healthy crops. The oak tree itself was considered sacred because of its strength and longevity, associated with the mighty Thor, Scandinavian god of thunder, agriculture and the home. Mistletoe, a parasite growing on oaks, shared this sacred aura. It remains green throughout winter, and is thus believed to preserve life by withstanding the rigours of death in nature, and brought into houses at Christmas for the benefit of its blessings. Mistletoe and holly both produce berries in mid-winter - mistletoe, white, and holly, red (reminders of sacrificial blood). The evergreen Christmas tree also symbolises eternal life. These ancient festivities, with their sacred connotations, were incorporated into Christianity, transferring devotion from the sun deity, giver of life and righteousness, to Jesus the Christ, who Christians regard as the Son of God, light of the world. The fact that many traditions share similar celebrations of enlightenment and goodwill are reminders of the universal life-affirming implications of religion, creating a strong sense of unity, recognising our common humanity. The principle of compassion lies at the heart of all religions, urging us to treat others as we wish to be treated - striving tirelessly for justice and equity, and alleviating the suffering of all fellow creatures. This, the true meaning of Christmas, will enrich our humanity, shaping the future flourishing of all life on this planet. * Alleyn Diesel has a PhD in religious studies from the University of Natal, where she taught in that department. POST