Durban - Going on a holiday soon? Driving to your destination?  Getting there safe and sound is a great way to start your holidays and make memories. 
These are just some tips for arriving at your destination without mishap. But, equally important, is the need to ensure you carry at least a litre of water, which can be placed in the well of the spare tyre, which, by the way, needs to be correctly inflated and in good roadworthy condition.  If you have any life-threatening allergies, wear a medical alert bracelet and keep essential medical numbers on your cellphone, sharing this information with your travelling partners. The vehicle itself must be in good roadworthy condition and free from clutter. There are pros and cons about servicing your vehicle before or after your journey.  Should you have any doubt whatsoever, rather have the vehicle checked before the trip.  If there is a part needed, replace it as the price could be more elsewhere. Your next of kin should ideally be informed of your itinerary and associated contact numbers. It is ideal to leave for your destination at least two hours before sunrise. The roads are quieter and driving conditions cool.  This means the vehicle must be packed the night before. And, when packing, make sure essentials are easily accessible. Leave your expensive watches and jewellery locked up in a safe. The same with expensive electronics items. Carry what you need. Should you be travelling cross-border by road, make photocopies of your passports, credit cards and other ID.  Leave one copy with a relative at home and keep another separate from your originals. Try to familiarise yourself with the local currency, so your first transaction will not be so confusing.  Bring an extra pair of glasses or contact lenses. You don't want your vacation ruined because you can’t see. You may be tempted to hire motorcycles and scooters, which may seem like a fun way to travel, but leave them to the locals, who are familiar with the streets and traffic rules. On this note, always ensure you have an international driver's licence and obey all local road rules.  Watch out for speed traps, which are usually about 5km or so when you enter a town. Don’t drink and drive. You might have a "small drink" but you could be over the limit.  Alcohol remains in your system for up to eight hours after consumption. If you are stopped at a roadblock, and it is determined you are over the legal limit, you will be arrested and charged with driving under the influence of liquor. You will be held in custody until you post bail. Depending on prior convictions against you, you face a minimum fine of about R2 000 or a two-year sentence or both. You may also lose your driver's licence or have it suspended. And, of course, you will have a criminal record. Safe and happy holidays! * Naresh Maharaj is a radio news and sports editor/ presenter, freelance motoring journalist, MC, international sports correspondent and voice-over artist. E-mail: maharaj@telkomsa.net POST