Durban - For the Govender brothers, Dion and Donovan, buying classic cars, especially by the US multinational auto maker Ford, is not a hobby but a passion. 
And with 23 classic Ford vehicles parked on their property in Verulam, the siblings were left with no choice but to undertake much needed home renovations. “Space was an issue and we ended up altering the house and extending our garages,” said 31-year-old Dion, a team leader at Outworx, an outsourced contact centre. We also built a carport in the back yard,” added Donovan, who is 28. The siblings said their dad, Sonny, ignited their love for cars, which started when they were teenagers. Under their father’s supervision, Dion purchased a Ford Cortina XR6 at 14 for R6 000 and Donovan a Ford Cortina 30s at 17, for R8 000, which they earned from helping their father work on his own vehicle during the weekends. The brothers, who fix and modify their vehicles, use their first cars to work on a daily basis and alternate between their classic cars on the weekends. “Our dad was, and still is, a huge Ford fanatic. When I was 7 years old, he had a Ford Cortina bakkie, which he still owns. “I loved the appearance and tone of the bakkie and always helped take care of it. I told myself that one day I would own my own Ford V6,” said Donovan, a contractor at Supper Roofing, a family business. They invest between R35000 and R40000 on cars and insist they will never sell them. “We have received numerous offers but we cannot put a price tag on our vehicles as they are priceless. We do not regard them as mere assets. They are our family,” said Donovan. The well-connected brothers, who have friends who hare their taste in cars, are often referred to people wanting to sell classic vehicles. “If it is in a good condition, we will buy it. We also search online for sales. People think we are crazy but our family supports us and understands the passion.” Donovan said their mom, Saroj, also loved Ford and drove a classic car. “They are proud of our collection and pleased that we did not let the passion for Ford die,” said Dion. The brothers, who are not married but consider their huskies Maya and Max and their ringneck, Figo, to be their only children; boasted that when they drive, people cannot stop staring at the vehicle. They admire and love the cars. “They are surprised that a car this old can still be in such a good condition and running,” said Donovan. The brothers are scouting for more cars, such as a Ford Sierra XR8, Ford Cortina XR6 Interceptor and Ford Capri Perana V8, to add to their collection. POST