Durban - Two Durban families have experienced first-hand the drastic measures criminals take to avoid being caught by police. The first family was attacked in broad daylight by robbers whose getaway vehicle - at least its number plate - was traced to another family, who were shopping at the Watercrest Mall in Waterfall. On Friday, eight armed men stormed the home of an Asherville family, assaulting and robbing them of their valuables. The homeowner, who requested anonymity, said her son, 26, daughter, 22, her 61-year-old sister and domestic worker were at home.  “My son was standing in our yard waiting for someone. As he turned to go back into our house, an armed man held him at gunpoint. He threatened to shoot him if he screamed.” Seconds later, she said, seven of the robber’s accomplices arrived in a Toyota Fortuner and parked the vehicle in her yard.  “The accomplices, all armed with guns, came into the house and demanded jewellery, cash, tech gadgets and anything of value. They beat my son and daughter with the butts of their guns, even though they co-operated with them. Two men stayed with my family as the rest ransacked the house.” The woman said the ordeal lasted about five minutes. “They turned the entire house upside down looking for valuables. “As they were leaving, my son pulled out another cellphone he had and took a picture of the number plate in the hope of tracing them.” Describing the robbers as callous and aggressive, the woman said her neighbours contacted police.  Using the number plate, police traced the vehicle to the Watercrest Mall, but found the robbers had cloned the number plate. The vehicle owner was shocked: “I was shopping with my wife and children. As we came out of the mall, I noticed a man walking around my vehicle - a 2014 model. He mentioned that police believed it was used in a robbery. I was totally shocked. “When he showed me the picture, the vehicle had my number plate but it was different models. I cannot understand how my number plate was cloned. It is a scary experience for me and my family.” No arrests have yet been made. POST