Durban - A few years ago, actress Zakeeya Patel was chatting to a chum about the lack of good men around, a conversation many single women have with their girlfriends, and soon thereafter her fortune changed. She was introduced to economist Rob Price in 2014 and recently become a Mrs. Patel, who featured on Strictly Come Dancing and opposite comedian Riaad Moosa in the movie Material, wed her Prince Charming at an intimate ceremony among family and friends in Cape Town. The 29-year-old Mela presenter wore a white gown with a red flower in her hair as her dad, Ebrahim, walked her down the aisle to meet 31-year-old Price. “I remember sitting on the couch with a friend and moaning about where have all the good men gone. Then she showed me Rob’s picture on Facebook. At first I was not sure if he was my type, but when I met him, I was completely blown away,” recalled Patel. Two years later, her equally smitten boyfriend popped the question. Planning a wedding, she said, could be stressful for many and she had the odd challenging moments, but she knew what she wanted, which helped with preparations. “We both have busy schedules and only started putting things together over the past six months. But because we knew exactly what we wanted, it was not difficult.” Their wedding was set outdoors overlooking a lake and each guest was garlanded with orange flowers. Describing the wedding as a mix of cultures, Patel said it encompassed all religions. “We did not want a traditional wedding, so we decided to borrow certain aspects from different religions and cultures. My grandmother, Katija Abdoola, opened the ceremony with an Islamic prayer and Rob’s sister and mom read from the Bible. His brother-in-law also recited his wishes in Xhosa.” Patel said a fire was lit, similar to a Hindu marriage ceremony, and it represented their growth. They recited their own vows. Before the reception, held under a white tent, Patel slipped into an off-the-shoulder top and skirt, which made it easier to perform Bollywood dances with her hubby and guests. “Our wedding was a representation of our love for each other. We are so thankful to our families who have supported us and helped us along our journey. I have never been happier, although I am still getting used to being called Mrs Price,” she laughed. They plan on honeymooning in Cuba or Mexico. Patel just finished shooting a show called The Docket and the film 3 Days to Go, which will air next year. POST