Opinion - Being a keen student of the English language, the other day I sought to find the etymology of the saying “Dutch courage”.  My revelation was interesting to say the least. 
Let me illustrate it so it would be fun in discovering the meaning of the phrase. It is a typical “Indian jol”.  The ladies are inside cooking and the men are nearby playing cards and drinking alcohol. One of the ladies goes over to the group and seeks out her husband to caution him about overindulgence. First she circles the group like a matador at a bullfight. She tries to catch her husband’s eye. You see, she wants to give him “the look”. Through numerous past experiences, he has learnt to avoid that devastating ‘evil eye’. So he ignores her.  She doesn’t give up and next she screams: “You know you have to drive home. Stop drinking so much.” Bolstered by the spirits he had imbibed he retorts: “Hey you ... shut up man.” That dear reader is what Dutch courage is! It is courage or confidence gained after drinking alcohol.  It emanates from the Anglo-Dutch wars back in 1652, where Dutch gin was used by English soldiers for its calming effects before battle. Back to the local battle, the wife hits back with: “You wait and see when you get home - you’re FINISHED. My mother warned me not to marry you.” The rest of the men look down sheepishly, grateful that it was not their turn that time, while our beleaguered friend resorts to more dollops of Dutch courage. Having a drink is a popular part of social life and alcohol is often the mainstay of most family functions. Weddings and other formal events held at a hall calls for some in(gin)uity. After all what were car boots made for?  When you see a host of men surreptitiously walking out of the hall, you can bet it is boot party time.  These days car boots are very advanced. Some are fully kitted out as mobile bars.  Whether it is a Mercedes or a Mazda, there is no social distinction as the boot is opened and a veritable Aladdin’s cave of liquid refreshments is unveiled. When a person wants a drink, very little can stop him in his quest for liquid satiation. I had an aged uncle who had a particular fondness for the demon drink as some call alcohol. His wife, out of concern for his deteriorating health, banned him from imbibing his favourite tipple. However, every afternoon, he showed signs of having had a few spots, but try as much as she could, his puzzled wife could find no trace of a bottle. One day, with some assistance from concerned relatives, they discovered not one, but two, bottles of whiskey.  One was hidden delicately under the outside washing trough, and the other, sacrilegiously hidden in the family prayer room. Talk about spirits! On a more sober note, it is alarming to see the increase in drinking among younger ones. A drive through Durban’s Blue Lagoon on a weekend would reveal some shocking facts. The silly season is on us right now. Parties are rife and drinking is a big factor in them. As in all things - moderation is essential. There is zero tolerance as far as drinking and driving and the law goes. There is nothing macho about out-drinking your mates. All it does is leave you with a massive headache the next day and in a bad mood. Without sounding preachy, in matters alcoholic, we need to be extremely frank with ourselves. If friends or relatives bring it to our attention that we misbehave after drinking alcohol, then we need to do some serious introspection. If you notice that alcohol makes you abusive or violent, then you need to take yourself in hand and make some serious decisions. No amount of tears or apologies can undo damage caused by a tongue that is loosened by spirituous liquid. Recent news items carried shocking stories of fights taking place at parties and people have been killed in its aftermath. Besides ruining your health, overindulgence can ruin your future. So single out your weakness and eliminate it or double your family’s share of unhappiness. May you be blessed this season, have a safe holiday and enjoy a most productive 2018. Be responsible and the only courage you will then need is to say “No”. * Ravi Govender is an entrepreneur and philanthropist. POST