Durban - Violence  against women and children in Phoenix is a growing concern and incidents are largely unreported as women fear the consequences of their actions. “Over the past year, we have had 127 reports of domestic violence and 27 reports of rape. “However, these numbers could be much higher as many victims fail to report to the police,” said the area’s head of visible policing, Colonel Teddy Munusamy. He was speaking at a 16 Days of No Violence Against Women and Children programme hosted by Phoenix SAPS and Phoenix Child Welfare at the Greenbury Hall. “Statistics show that a woman is raped every eight hours and assaulted every 13 hours. So with these figures, domestic violence should become everyone’s business. "Our children must not grow up in a society or community that is infested with violence. Ring the bell, the police will definitely be there.” Munusamy added that during the holiday season, the community needed to safeguard children. “Watch where they are going, who they are involved with and who their friends are,” he cautioned. “There is too much violence among the youth, which was evident from the videos of schoolchildren fighting. "Let’s put an end to violence.” Various stakeholders and an abuse victim spoke out about the scourge. “There comes a time when enough is enough and you have to get out,” said the survivor of domestic abuse. The mother was in an abusive relationship for 13 years out of “shame” of what the community would think of her. “Because of my fears and doubts, I chose to stay and live a tormented life. "In our community, it is believed you don’t just walk out of a relationship or marriage. “You stay and make it work. But over the past year, after I walked away, I learnt that you don’t have to stay and endanger your life or your children, whose lives are affected the most.” Addressing the misconception that there is no help available, she said many organisations, including the police, could assist. “If it was not for the police, who had the patience to listen to me, or the Phoenix Child Welfare, who stepped in to remove my children and I out of a deadly situation, I would still be just another victim who remained silent. “I am now able to rebuild my life and be a woman free of abuse. I pledge that I will never be silent or a victim again. "As a community it is our responsibility to alert the authorities and save lives.” The director of the Phoenix Child and Family Welfare Society, Aroona Chetty, said they received calls every day on a child being abused. “The number of calls we receive about children being abused is unbelievable,” she said. “It is easy to see physical abuse, but what about those who are emotionally and sexually abused? “It is the duty of a neighbour to report domestic violence, especially if you know there is a child living in that home. "Do not sit back in silence. Alert child welfare or the SAPS.” Chetty urged the community to also observe children’s behavioural patterns. “Watch for different signs, if children become more aggressive or withdrawn. We don’t want our children growing up having the mentality that it is okay to be a victim of abuse.” Beryl Moodley, a social worker at the Sahara Shelter for Abused Women and Children in Phoenix, said although the 16 Days of Activism were commemorated between November 25 and December 10, society had to care for the most vulnerable every day. “If you see a woman or child being beaten, don’t be quiet, report them. "The shelter is open every single day and we will help these women and children.” She said most women stayed in toxic relationships because they believed they had nowhere to go or worried about who would support them financially. “At the shelter, we give them a place to stay, help them get back on their feet, help them get jobs and overcome the trauma they have experienced.” POST