Durban - The shock discovery of a fourth body along a stream near the infamous “Barnyard” drug den in Phoenix has brought into sharp focus the deadly effects of the drug problem in the township. Louie Aricksamy, 23, who was hooked on sugars, died of lung cancer last Monday. He was the fourth drug addict to have died near the notorious drug den in the past two years. In May, the badly disfigured bodies of Nevashin Pillay, 30, and Prince Gumede (age unknown), were found, metres apart, in the stream. Barnyard boss and self-confessed drug dealer Kevin Moodley, along with his workers Nicholas Muzenda and Sifiso David Ntuli, were arrested and charged with murder. Read: PICS: Durban suburb's 24-hour drug den Drug theft behind killings by pit bulls The case is still before the Verulam Magistrate’s Court. In February last year, the mutilated body of a woman, Shantel Pillay, 29, was found in the same stream. Pillay, a known drug addict, had also been mauled by dogs. More than a year later, no one has been arrested or charged in relation to her death. Aricksamy’s family said they had tried everything to help him get off drugs, but nothing had worked and now they fear their youngest son, Wayne, who is also a drug addict, may suffer the same fate. Louie and Wayne, 19, had both left the comfort of their home to live in bushes near the drug den. “About six months ago, my brother became ill and went to the clinic for treatment. After a few visits and tests, he was told he had lung cancer. He became very sick and had sores on his hands and body. He did not want to tell our family,” Wayne told POST. “I found him dead on Monday.” He confirmed that he and his brother had smoked sugars and rock cocaine about six times a day. “It costs R14 a piece and we would make money by begging, selling bubble gum and even pushing trolleys at the shopping centres.” Shocked by his brother’s death, Wayne now wants to give up drugs. His distraught grandmother, Selvie, said she and her family had tried on numerous occasions to get the siblings help. “I raised Louie and Wayne from the time they were little boys and they both had bright futures. Louie had been on drugs since the age of 13 and Wayne started a few years later. “Their only focus in life was to get their next fix. Soon after they started taking the drugs, they dropped out of school, and after a few years left the comfort of our home to live in bushes. We tried to get them help but every time they ran away.” Selvie said drugs are killing the youth in Phoenix and destroying families. “Police need to work harder to stop the drug trade in Phoenix. Our youth are dying. Families are being torn apart. How many more people will have to die before this is taken seriously?” She said Phoenix was in desperate need of a drug rehabilitation centre to help the youth. Residents, who wished to remain anonymous, said police needed to work harder to clamp down on the drug trade. One resident, who has been living in the area for more than 25 years, said the Barnyard had been operating for years and police were still unable to stop the alleged illegal activities there. “People are dying because of this place. These addicts are stealing from us in order to get money for their drugs. More needs to be done by police and government,” said a father of two. Another resident, a 40-year-old cashier, said Phoenix needed a proper facility to help drug addicts. “We need an anti-drug forum like Chatsworth which can help our youth with their habits. It’s frightening when you look at how thin these children are because of the drugs,” she said. DA Councillor Tino Pillay said there were 52 drug dens operating in the community, and although police know where they are located, the challenge was finding the dealers in possession of the drugs. “The drug trade in Phoenix is out of hand. We are trying to work with police to curb the issue. These drug dealers are well prepared. Once the first drug den gets hit during a raid, then the others are notified. The Barnyard even has scouts monitoring the area and looking out for police.” Northcroft CPF chairperson Unesh Munnisunker claimed that “hundreds” of drug addicts flocked to the Barnyard daily. “It is a pandemic and it is rising. We need government intervention or else our youth will be lost to drugs. We have hundreds of drug users sleeping in the streets. It is a sad state of affairs.” Phoenix CPF chairperson Umesh Singh said drugs were an ongoing problem. “SAPS Phoenix, together with other stakeholders, are making excellent arrests. We thank the community for their support and urge the community at large to join and support SAPS Phoenix to fight this scourge.” He said drugs and drug-related crimes affected everybody. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said Louie Aricksamy’s death was being investigated. POST