Durban - With the festive season in full swing, the CEO of Europ Assistance South Africa, Christelle Colman is advising travellers to create a checklist to avoid financial loss during this time.  “Many families have already started planning their local or international vacations. A seemingly small incident can end up cost a small fortune while on holiday, for example, lost luggage, stolen possessions, medical emergencies as well as disasters at home, such as a break-in or burst geyser,” she said.  During this time, most people plan to take a family vacation to destress and unwind for the year ahead.  Colman has put together a few checks people could use before they depart.  1.Increase your travel insurance limits Most people do not even think about checking if they have travel insurance in place before embarking on a holiday abroad. Some people are lucky enough to have travel insurance linked to their credit card or airline ticket, but this cover is limited and is often not enough to cover losses for international trips. Imagine you arrive in a foreign destination with no luggage and you only have R1 000 to buy toiletries and clothes to last you for a few days while the airline finds your luggage. 2.Check whether you have emergency medical assistance in place Be sure to check with your medical aid or insurance provider if you have access to medical assistance services and if so, make sure that the emergency contact number is saved on your mobile phone. These service providers are qualified to deal with any medical emergency, from sea rescue to any other type of emergency that requires medical stabilisation and transportation. 3. Home preparations before you leave Unattended homes provide an appealing opportunity for burglars. If you cannot get a house sitter, make it look like someone is home by using timers to set interior or exterior lights. Ask a friend or trusted neighbour to check on your house occasionally and collect your post. If you have visible grass or a garden, make sure you can get someone in to mown the lawn and clean up leaves and other debris. 4. Emergency home assist services Unfortunately, emergencies often happen at the most inopportune time. A burst pipe or overflowing geyser back home can seriously spoil your holiday mood. It is recommended that all geysers and water mains are switched off when leaving the home. 5.Ensure the car is in proper roadworthy condition For those travelling on the road to a local destination, make sure you conduct a full vehicle safety check, ensure roadside assistance numbers are saved on your phone and that all car insurance premiums are paid up-to-date. Motorists can do simple safety checks to ensure that if something happens on the road they are prepared for it. Should the unfortunate happen and a breakdown or accident occur, it is of the utmost importance to have your emergency roadside assistance and medical assistance numbers on hand. If the car breaks down or you are involved in a collision, a rental car or emergency accommodation might be needed if you are still far away from your destination, which is why it is important to have your insurer’s details on hand to avoid being stuck in the middle of nowhere. "By following the above advice, holidaymakers can ensure that their vacation does not turn into a traumatic experience in the event of an emergency. As most services are readily available or already provided in existing products, it is important that holidaymakers familiarise themselves with the various benefits available to them," said Colman.  POST