Durban - The failure of the Department of Social Development in KwaZulu-Natal to renew contracts with doctors has resulted in many social grant recipients being left penniless for the past three months. 
The South African Social Security Agency (Sassa), the national agency that distributes grants on behalf of the department, has since apologised and assured recipients that doctors would resume their duties this week. “We regret any adverse effect this might have caused to our beneficiaries,” said the acting regional executive manager for Sassa KZN, Sbusiso Nhlangothi. But a local councillor has questioned why protocols were not implemented earlier to avoid uncertainty and confusion. When an individual applies for a disability grant, doctors appointed by Sassa evaluate the applicant's illness and this determines whether a grant would be approved. Feeling the hardship of the delay is unemployed Sherine Maistry, 46, of Phoenix, who requires a grant for her 18-year-old daughter, Temera. Maistry contracted meningitis while pregnant and was put on a course of medication, which had an adverse effect on Temera. The lack of fluid to the brain resulted in Temera being unable to speak and walk. “I cannot work because I need to take care of her,” said Maistry. Since Temera’s birth, Maistry has been receiving a child dependency grant of R1 600 but when she turned 18 in August, the grant stopped. “I went to the grant office in September to collect her money and was told it was not available because she was now regarded as an adult. "I explained my daughter's condition and was told to take her to the Sassa doctor for an evaluation,” said Maistry. She said her daughter's grant should have been changed from dependency to disability. “I have been to the Sassa office to see the doctor four times since September and have received no joy.” The mother of four said forking out money to pay for private transport to the Sassa office in Phoenix was depleting her already limited budget. The single parent, whose husband died 10 years ago, said she relied on the grant. “My other children try to help but they are struggling themselves.” Another unemployed Phoenix parent, Lata Mohundass, 47, said her son, Kavil, suffered with a speech disorder and was awaiting approval on his disability grant. “Kavil was born with a cleft palate and underwent surgery to repair it when he was 11 months old. As he got older, he did not speak properly and went for speech therapy at the age of 3.” She began collecting a child dependency grant when he turned 7. Kavil, who attended the AM Moolla Spes Nova School, continued with speech therapy until he turned 18. “His speech improved and he managed to find a job as a packer at a factory but left because people could not understand him.” She said she applied for a disability grant in October and was told her application was delayed as there were no doctors to assess her 20-year-old son. “I have been going to the Sassa office for almost four months hoping to see a doctor but have been turned away.” Her husband, Ishwar, died in 2004. MF councillor Jonathan Annipen said many people have been “left in the cold” without any definite date as to when their reviews will be concluded. “Surely procurement officials would be aware of the renewals and processes should have been completed in good time.” Nhlangothi said they had been inundated with enquiries about the delay and rescheduling of assessment dates. “Efforts to expedite the process of appointing doctors were hampered when Sassa received a directive from Department of Public Service and Administration to halt the appointment of doctors who are contracted to the Department of Health,” he said. Nhlangothi added that this was deemed to be in breach of the Public Service Act and the Public Service Regulations of 2016, which prohibits doctors employed by the government from doing further business with other government sectors. He, however, said doctors would commence with their duties this week. POST