Durban - Cyril Ramaphosa's win as ANC president was "no surprise", says political analyst Professor Bheki Mngomezulu. Ramaphosa beat Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma by 179 votes at the ANC's 54th annual conference in Johannesburg on Monday night.   “Unfortunately, court rulings in KwaZulu-Natal, the North West and the Free State disadvantaged Dlamini-Zuma’s chances. Also, the Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu) openly said that if Cyril did not win, they would withdraw their allegiance to the leading party next year," said Mngomezulu. "We don't only see politics where you choose and follow your leader but it is also personality politics," he said, "and unfortunately, Dlamini-Zuma is at a disadvantage because she is aligned to President Zuma." This was unfair, he said, because she has the skills to do the job.  "But it is a reality, those who are not happy with the president, associate her to him.”  Mngomezulu believed Ramaphosa’s win was strategic.  “A lot of business sectors backed Ramaphosa, with many like Standard Bank saying that if Dlamini-Zuma won, the economy would go down.  "The SACP traditionally brings in votes for the party and with 2019 elections around the corner, if Dlamini-Zuma won, the SACP might have declined to vote and opposition parties would have gained." MF leader Shameen Thakur Rajbansi said herparty welcomed the outcome.  “I have confidence in Cyril Ramaphosa to unify our country and manage the financial crisis we find ourselves in, by selecting a merit based cabinet.  "However, he will have to be transparent about the framework of radical economic transformation and the inclusion of low and middle income Indian and coloured youth. He must also resolve the burning question, whether the State is captured or the private sector."  The DA's Zwakele Mncwango believed the result proved nothing.  “If a truck is faulty, without a service or fix, it will continue to be faulty. Cyril is just driving the faulty truck," said Mncwango.  "Ramaphosa has been thrown in the deep and he needs to save the party from crooks. His biggest test will be if he takes Zuma to task.” The IFP's Narend Singh said: "We need to see him take action and show the sort of leadership we have seen by the party's previous leadership.” Mpumulanga Premier David Mabuza was elected deputy president; former secretary-general Gwede Mantashe was elected national Cchairman; Ace Magashula was elected secretary-general; Jessie Duarte retained her deputy secretary-general position; and Paul Mashatile was elected treasurer-general.  POST