Durban - "BLESSERS" - old wealthy men who prey on girls and young women for sex in exchange for a taste of the high life - is a phenomenon that is rife in some Indian communities. This is according to a Chatsworth nursing instructor who has researched the issues she believes are adding to the country’s HIV/Aids problem. With Friday marking World Aids Day, Lorraine Govender believes not enough is being done in Indian communities to teach teenagers about HIV and Aids. Govender undertook research on the perceptions of Indian adolescents in Chatsworth to HIV and Aids, while completing her Master's degree in nursing science at Unisa. The nursing instructor at Life Healthcare will today receive a recognition award from the company for her research and completing her Master's degree. Govender interviewed 10 teenagers, between the ages of 18 and 19, from Woodhurst, Westcliffe, Havenside and Silverglen. She said it was daunting to discuss the disease and activities that led to a person contracting it. “Many of them had some information on the disease, but were not well informed because they did not know of anyone living with it. Those that did know, did not believe they could contract the virus,” said Govender. The 44-year-old believes it is time for parents to speak up to prevent their children from falling prey to the disease. “These communities are very conservative. Parents would not speak to their kids, and kids will hear or learn about it during their life orientation class or through their peers. “People need to speak up. Kids as young as 12 are becoming sexually active. If you go to the local library, you will notice teenagers making out. We need to stop shying away from the truth and educate our children.” The mother of two believes the “blesser syndrome” is rife in Chatsworth. “In my group, participants mentioned the blesser syndrome and knowing of young women with blessers. These blessers exploit our vulnerable kids. These kids are unknowingly destroying their lives for money and luxuries.” Govender added that communities were inhibited by all sorts of taboos, which discouraged them from going to health camps to learn more about HIV and Aids. “People are scared of being seen walking into a talk about HIV and Aids because others will believe they are infected. So they prefer to stay in their homes with the little knowledge they have.” Besides urging parents to communicate with their children, Govender believes the life orientation module taught at high schools should include information on Aids and antiretroviral treatment. She also feels community involvement projects should be taken to schools rather than communities because of the stigma people have of associating others to the disease. According to UNAids, last year South Africa had 270000 new cases of HIV infections and 110000 Aids-related deaths. POST