Cape Town - A 22-year-old Western Cape woman will meet her in-laws for the first time when she takes her husband’s body home to Pakistan to bury him in accordance with Islamic rites. Abdul Haseeb's body was found on the N2 in Delft on Friday. The 23-year-old Pakistani had a gunshot wound to the head. His sister-in-law, Taheera Hoosen, said his wife, Zainab Haseeb, was devastated. They married only a year ago. “She is not in a good state. We are here supporting her. We had to get her sedated,” she said. The couple have a four-month-old baby. Hoosen said Haseeb had run a cellphone shop, 786@cell, in Elsies River. “He came to South Africa about two years ago and set up a shop so that he could support his family. His mother and sisters wait for him to send money each month because they have no other income,” she said. Hoosen added they had told everyone in his family he had been murdered, but did not want his mother to know in case her health deteriorated. “They are keeping quiet around her because they aren’t sure how she will take it. My mom will go with my sister and her baby to Pakistan. It will be the first time my sister will meet her in-laws,” she said. Police believe the businessman was hijacked. His vehicle, a red Audi A3, was taken. His body was found on the freeway on Friday. It is understood that Haseeb was on his way to Rylands and never returned to Elsies River area. “Circumstances about the murder of the missing person are being investigated after his body was discovered at the N2 Gateway in Delft on Thursday at around 9.15pm. He had been shot,” police spokesperson Andre Traut said last week. There have been no arrests. Elsies River Community Policing Forum spokesperson Imraahn Mukaddam said: “It is alleged somebody called him on Thursday night wanting to sell a cellphone. ‘‘At the same time, it is believed his vehicle was for sale online, as well. The killing could be related to either one of these matters. “It seems it’s a trap he walked into,” Mukaddam said. Hoosen said police had been working closely with the family, who were desperate to know what had happened. “We are still very emotional that he’s gone. The police are trying their best to help us in any way they can. We just want justice to be done and I’m sure the police will do their best to make that happen. He was a kind-hearted person who always made us smile,” she said. The family held a ceremony for him on Monday and will now do the Islamic burial in Pakistan. POST and Cape Times