Cape Town - The Spur restaurant in Gordon’s Bay distanced itself from racism allegations after 28-year-old Xolani Loliwe said the outlet’s manager allegedly denied him entry to the outlet because of his skin colour. Loliwe said he was verbally abused by a customer on Monday in the parking area next to Beach Road, and when he approached a manager of the food chain, he received a second slight when he was denied entry into the Sunset Bay Spur. When Loliwe approached a man in a Spur uniform - who said he was a manager - for assistance, he said he was told to f*** off, and was denied entry into the restaurant. The Spur Group had launched an investigation into the incident. A statement by the Sunset Bay Spur Steak Ranch franchise said: “Our restaurant operator has unwittingly been made a party to a dispute between private individuals which occurred outside of the restaurant premises. Also read: Spur Group probing racism claim after parking spat "We understand that both parties have subsequently laid charges against each other at the Gordon’s Bay police station and it would therefore be inappropriate to comment on a pending criminal matter. “As the owner of the Gordons Bay Spur, we hold our brand values in the highest regard and condemn all forms of discrimination, and it is unfortunate that our restaurant has unfairly been referenced in this dispute.” Loliwe went to the Gordon’s Bay police station, where he laid charges against the customer and the manager, charging that was being victimised because he was black. A Strand resident who said she witnessed the incident, and gave a statement to the police, said: “The older man was in the wrong and said ‘you black a** people don’t own the land, we do’.” Police confirmed that Loliwe opened two cases of crimen injuria (wilful injury to someone’s dignity) against two individuals following an incident in a parking area in Strand. Loliwe said he had no qualms after the restaurant owner had distanced the restaurant from the event. Police spokesperson Andre Traut said: “This office can confirm that a crimen injuria case was reported to Gordon’s Bay police yesterday (Tuesday) by a 68-year-old man relating to an incident which occurred in Strand on Monday afternoon. The circumstances are being investigated.” However, Loliwe said: “They are entitled to do whatever they feel and say, whatever they want to say. I have been informed the other man has laid a complaint against me.” Cape Times