Durban - Amid calls for heads to roll at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital after a decomposing corpse was left partly wrapped in plastic in an equipment room, its authorities say they are struggling to cope.
POST reported last week that a four-year-old girl made the grisly discovery. A board member of the Phoenix hospital, Pastor Mervyn Reddy, said an investigation was under way. “For a long time, the hospital has been understaffed and the employees are overworked. Staff are working extra time to help the community. Because of the influx of patients and shortage of staff, not everyone is seen to on time,” said Reddy. “But these challenges are no excuse to have a partially decomposed body lying around, visible to the public. A hospital must provide the best possible care.” Read: Girl, 4, in shock hospital find The spokesperson for the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Health, Sam Mkhwanazi, said when a patient died in a hospital ward, the corpse was isolated from other patients. “The (remains) are then prepared accordingly, to be collected by mortuary staff. “Regarding the alleged incident, the place (room) where the mortal remains had been placed was out of bounds to the public, let alone a child.” Mkhwanazi said an “unsupervised” child had wandered into the room. “While the alleged incident is regrettable, the department would like to urge parents or guardians to ensure that children are supervised at all times when visiting health facilities.” The IFP, however, is adamant hospital management must be held accountable. “Heads must roll. We want to know why this body was left in an equipment room instead of sending it to the mortuary. “Who was on duty that day? Where were the porters? I believe there should be an investigation into how the hospital areas were not thoroughly checked by the staff,” said IFP MPL Ncamisile Nkwanyana. She said the party wanted to see action taken against the porters and their bosses. “If they are not equipped to do their jobs, they should be fired. In the spirit of ubuntu, we respect those who have passed away, but in this matter it was gross negligence. “It is shocking that a nurse on duty was quoted as saying that was how things were done in this hospital. This proves people do as they please, knowing they will face no consequences. There is no monitoring of staff.We cannot tolerate negligence in our public health-care facilities.” Nkwanyana said the “situation in KZN” was very disturbing. “I can see that the whole health system is on the verge of collapse. We must also caution that this situation is just the tip of the iceberg.” POST