TWO brothers and a friend who came to the aid of a woman in distress have been convicted of culpable homicide after a man who they had beaten up, believing him to have been her attacker, later died of his injuries. One of the trio, a remorseful Trishen Sewpersad, 20, told the Verulam Magistrate’s Court last week he had not intended to kill Sboniso Gumbi, whom he claimed had been trying to rape his younger sister on a pathway in Phoenix last year. He had intended to apprehend him and hand him over to police, he said. Sewpersad, a call centre employee, and his friends - brothers Rynel, 36, and Ricardo Naidoo, 24 - all pleaded guilty to culpable homicide in that they negligently caused the death of Gumbi. The trio assaulted him on August 20 in Northcroft, Phoenix, but insist that they alone were not to blame, as other community members had also attacked Gumbi. Their guilty plea was accepted by the court and the matter was adjourned for sentencing. Sewpersad said he had been standing outside his home sipping tea while waiting for his lift to work when he recognised his younger sister’s scream. His sister, he said, had been on her way to the shops. “I ran in the direction of the scream and came across my sister on a pathway, lying on the ground crying hysterically,” he said in his statement. “I asked her what happened and she said an African male tried to rape her, pointing in the direction of the man who was fleeing.” Sewpersad said the man was already being pursued by others in the community. “I gave chase and the suspect ran into a stream and into a tunnel.” Sewpersad said he waited at the top of the tunnel and approached the suspect when he exited. “I asked him to stop running. The suspect picked up a glass bottle. I picked up a broken piece of brick and aimed it at him. The brick struck him on his back but he continued to flee.” Sewpersad said he could not chase the suspect because he was wearing slippers so returned to help his sister. He said other community members continued the pursuit. “I arrived where my sister and mother were and carried my sister home.” He said that when he went back to look for the suspect, he found community members assaulting the deceased, who was lying in the middle of the road. “I approached the suspect and asked him to wake up and accompany me to my sister to apologise, but he refused. Out of anger I slapped and punched him several times and kicked him once or twice at the side of his body.” Sewpersad said he stopped a passer-by with a wheelbarrow and requested to use it, so they could transport the injured suspect back to his sister, so that she could confirm if he indeed was her attacker. “When my sister confirmed that it was him, members of the community assaulted him again.” Sewpersad said his transport for work arrived shortly thereafter. He later learnt from the police that the suspect had died. He said that he made a mistake and was remorseful for his actions. “I should not have participated in assaulting the deceased.” The Naidoo brothers, who live two doors away from Sewpersad, said they had also heard Sewpersad’s sister screaming and accompanied him to where she had been. Both men said other people had also assaulted Gumbi. “I had hit the deceased with clenched fists and then kicked him with my feet,” said Rynel. The brothers said they, too, had not intended to kill the suspect. “I understand that I could have called the police to apprehend the deceased,” said Ricardo. All three are out on bail. POST