FEATURE - A little green temple in the heart of Cato Manor has stood the test of time overcoming World War 1 and 2, the 1949 riots, as well as the dreaded Group Areas Act. Now 109 years old, the Shree Gengaiammen Temple continues to flourish and was recognised as a heritage site by Amafa, the provincial heritage authority.
One of its main attractions is a 2m puthu (growing mound) believed to be inhabited by the goddess Mariammen also known as the Mother. The rich legacy and history behind the temple began with devotee Thambooran Gounden. “Mr Gounden was 16 when he arrived from India to South Africa in 1879. It was some 10 years after his arrival and setting up home in the area that he noticed a mound similar to an anthill materialise,” temple chairman Dayalan Pillay, said. He said the puthu had become a sacred spot in the settlement: “Realising that this growth was somewhat auspicious and holy, Gounden built a temporary shelter out of bamboo around the growing puthu. Over the years, a tin and wood structure replaced the bamboo.” Pillay said that since the area was declared a heritage site, they are not allowed to tamper with the temple structure. However, as the years passed, the temple’s ablution facilities were revamped and a hall and prayer area added. He said many miracles have taken place at this place of worship: “Our priestess, the late Ms Subbamma Govender, witnessed many miracles.” Pillay said that in 1980 a devotee saw lights emerge from the Umkumbaan River and it suddenly disappeared. The next day, he said, the priestess found a R200 note left at the lamp at the feet of the Mother. “Other times, garlands or flowers, which were offered to the Mother, fell at the feet of devotees; and worshippers who were sick, were cured of their ailments.” One of the biggest prayers observed at the temple is Mother's Day, when over 7000 devotees flock to pay homage to the Mother. * Send us details of historic places of worship - churches, temples, mosques over 80 years old. E-mail post@inl.co.za. POST