Durban - Grieving widower Loga Pillay is angry with Pam Golding Properties, holding the company “morally responsible” for the death of his beloved wife Gona. The couple were attacked last month at their Silverglen home, which had been on sale. One of the three people arrested in connection with incident is a Pam Golding intern sales agent who was allegedly involved in helping sell the house. The Pillays had planned to move to a seaside flat in eManzimtoti. Gona, 63, a well-known retired principal, was stabbed to death and her husband left for dead. Loga was discharged from hospital earlier this month. Speaking to POST this week, their son Dhashogan said under no circumstance would his parents have allowed strangers into their home. “He and my mother placed their faith in and trusted Pam Golding and they let him them down,” he said. Read: Angry crowd frustrated at Gona trial delay “I would advise the public to ask for a signed background check before using an agent. The background check must detail if the agent has a criminal record, or charges against him/her. Also a background check which tests the values of the agent. I have recently learnt that a similar incident occurred two years on the North Coast where an agent was murdered. “I am just so concerned with the business model which is endorsed by this industry and I hope for some form of reform and compliance. It is totally unacceptable that the public is subject to this risk and one has to question the hierarchy of values being displayed by the company,” he said. Dhashogan joined his father and older brother Abiseshen on Friday at the Havenside Community Hall, where Southlands Secondary School held a memorial for Gona. She had taught at the school and and later led it as principal. Abiseshen described his mother as the strength in their home. “She took many forms like the religious head of the household, and the one who would ensure we spend family time even if it was by taking a walk on the beachfront. She loved teaching her pupils and giving back and always told us that service to mankind is service to God and if we do good, then our home would be blessed.” Abiseshan said his parents had had a good marriage for close to 40 years. His dad, he added, was recovering well. Also read: Principal helped ‘raise a community, a nation’ “I spent the day with him and you can see he is getting stronger and stronger. Emotionally, it is going to be a while before we can get over her passing but we are strong, because mum made us that way, so we will.” Pam Golding intern Basil Underhill, his cousin Braveman Underhill and Fredboy Msomi are in custody after bail was denied when they appeared in the Chatsworth Magistrate’s Court in connection with the murder. Pam Golding Properties said in a statement to POST on Tuesday that Basil had been contracted as an intern estate agent by the company’s eManzimtoti franchise in January. “The mandated agent to sell Mr and Mrs Pillay’s property was not Mr Underhill, but a qualified agent who works for a Pam Golding franchise office in the area, ie, Chatsworth, where the property is situated. We understand that the selling agent was in regular contact with the sellers. Mr Underhill merely referred the property,” the statement read. The company said the franchise business had confirmed that it had applied and followed its standard application and reference checking process before contracting with Underhill. “From our investigation it is evident that the franchisee followed an internal screening procedure and reference checking process. Unfortunately no vetting or screening process can guarantee that criminal acts will not be committed. “Members of the public are always encouraged to check whether any agent they are dealing with is in possession of the necessary fidelity fund certification and this information is freely available and can be easily established on the EAAB’s (Estate Agency Affairs Board) website,” it said. “Pam Golding Properties is shocked and appalled by this tragic event and its franchise offices, with the full support of the PGP Group, have and will continue to provide the police with whatever information and assistance they can in regard to their ongoing investigations. The criminal justice system must take its course to ensure that the perpetrators of this terrible crime are held to account.” POST