Durban - The public will have until November 16 to voice their concerns on Eskom's tariff increase following a revenue application to the National Energy Regulator of South Africa (Nersa). Public hearings will be held by Nersa in the nine provinces between October 30 and November 16. If approved, Eskom’s direct customers will pay 19.9% more from April 1 next year while the utility’s municipal customers will pay 27.5% more from July 1. The eThekwini Municipality’s head of communications, Tozi Mthethwa, said an increase of this magnitude would have a direct impact on residents and businesses. “Any increase by Eskom on the municipal tariffs will have to be passed on to the end customer. Although Eskom’s application calls for a 19.9% increase to its direct customers, municipality increases will amount to 27.5%. Purchasing electricity for distribution amounts to approximately 70% of our expenses,” he said. Mthethwa said the increase would see the number of customers looking at alternative energies, such as gas and solar, rise: “This will result in a further drop in sales which puts an upward pressure on electricity. The above inflationary increases are not sustainable and affects the affordable provision of electricity services directly.” Mthethwa confirmed municipal representatives will attend the consultation forums to voice their concerns via the South African Local Government Association. DA chief whip Sharon Hoosen said theft of electricity was likely to reach uncontrollable proportions as a result. “The more unaffordable electricity becomes, the higher the rate of electricity theft. This means that those who can afford to pay will always be paying a higher premium to cover the costs of stolen electricity," she said. "The city will always have to recover the costs of stolen electricity and the easiest source for this, is those who can afford to pay.” The National Black Consumer Council said Eskom must be granted a zero increase as it is ranked among the top 10 most expensive providers of electricity in the world. “They must focus on service delivery to the public instead of mega profit. Consumers are in financial distress at the moment and they carry a heavy debt burden. Consumers cannot therefore spare any extra money for increased electricity tariffs,” the council said. POST