Durban - Billy Krishna Gounden, 63, was killed almost instantly when a stray beam cut through his chest during a structural collapse at his Inanda Road home on Sunday afternoon. Neighbour Bob Govender said he was chatting to his nephew on the road when he heard screams coming from Gounden’s home. “When I got to the house, all I saw was Bill’s car covered by the wreckage. I heard him screaming, ‘Help me, please help me’, but there was nothing we could do. Reaction officers already taped off the area, preventing any of us from getting close. It was horrifying.” Firemen from the Umhlanga Fire and Rescue Services had to saw off the beam and parts of the vehicle to free the body. Gounden was apparently moving his BMW into the garage when the tragedy occurred. A source claimed he had arrived from catering company, Mumbai Dreams, where he volunteers his time. “He was busy playing with his grandchild but realised it was time to make his wife a cup of tea. He decided to quickly park the car before going inside.” According to Prem Balram, head of Reaction Unit South Africa, Gounden hit a supporting concrete pillar, causing the fatal collapse. “He was subsequently killed when a wooden beam penetrated his chest.” His death has sent shock waves through the community, with locals taking to Facebook to express their condolences. Close friend of the family, Sabashni Moodley said: “This is such a sad and tragic time for everyone who knew him. Rest in peace uncle Bill. My sincere condolences to Jesslyn and mum.” Mark Pillay said: “Rest in peace uncle Billy, you were truly a humble man and a good friend to me.” Bob’s wife, Marie said: “We have been neighbours to Gounden and his family for a long time so the news of his passing came as huge shock to us. “Bill was a very friendly person, always full of laughs and smiles. We shared a very good relationship with him and his wife Poovie. “I can’t imagine what Poovie must be going through. I just pray for God’s strength for her and her family during this difficult time.” Gounden’s son Jesslyn was still coming to grips with the incident and declined to comment. Jesslyn, his wife and child, lived with his parents at their Inanda home. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said an inquest docket had been opened. “The circumstances surrounding the incident are currently being investigated.” Gounden was cremated on Tuesday. POST