Lifestyle - Ranked as Asia’s best restaurant for three years in a row, Bankok’s Gaggan restaurant, named after Kolkata-born chef Gaggan Anand is on a mission to prove to the world that the concept of curry doesn’t exist in Indian cuisine. “I want to show the world that there’s no such thing as a curry. There’s only a curry leaf that gives the taste. Curry is a very British idea. “With just the oil from a curry leaf, I can make anything taste like curry,” the award-winning Anand said in a conversation with the Indo-Asian News Service (IANS) at the Taj West End. The owner and executive chef of the Bangkok restaurant, which has been ranked as the best restaurant in Asia every year since 2015 by theworlds50best.com, was on a four-city tour to present his food through pop-ups at Taj Hotels in the country, where his culinary career began. Anand’s food is inspired by humble Indian street-food, which he elevates into inspired-dishes through innovation and plating in fine-dining fashion - from chocolate paani puri to keema pav. Instead of using knives and forks, global diners eat Indian food with their hands, the way it’s traditionally eaten. His innovative approach has enabled Anand to place Indian food on the world map in a much larger way. Instead of the long descriptions that typically feature on restaurant menus, emojis are used to present the 25 tasty courses served. Deciphering the ideograms is a challenge, and it isn’t easy for guests to predict what will be served. “My idea is to bring all of people’s senses to life. I use food to seduce people and agitate their minds by surprising them without any pretensions. “Everybody would have made jalebis (also known as zulbia) into various sweet versions, but no one would have thought of a savoury version,” explained an exuberant Anand. “I have created my own philosophy of food, which is what sets me apart and has got me where I am now.” Anand’s restaurant is also the only Indian eatery to have featured in the World’s top 10 restaurants. Music is an integral part of Anand’s work as a chef. Rock music blares forth from his kitchen and out of the kitchen he is often seen wearing his favourite band’s T-shirt. He even created a dish named “Lick it up”, inspired by the American rock band “Kiss”, which diners need to lick off the plate. The serving of meals is a theatrical affair, like a concert full of surprises. The innovative chef has established six teams dedicated to research and development in his “food laboratory”. Featured in the Netflix Emmy-nominated Chef’sTable, Anand’s kitchen features as “virtual UN with people from across the world working in it”. In 2010, when Anand started his restaurant, his focus was on molecular gastronomy principles, which involves a physical and chemical transformation of ingredients. He later adopted a “minimalist” approach to food, he explained. “Most often, Indian chefs give glory to quinoa, zucchini and goji berries while ignoring our own ingredients like drumsticks and colocasia root. “We should create from our ingredients rather than seeking to the West for ideas,” Anand said. “So, my food is all about honesty in using seasonal produce, while keeping the plate as minimalist as possible. “Only the elements that belong on the plate stay on it.” This simplistic approach is perhaps what late President APJ Abdul Kalam loved the most about Anand’s food. “I used to travel along with Kalam when he was the president (Kalam was president of India from 2002 to 2007). “He used to eat the rice and rasam I used to make for him at 6am each morning,” the chef reminisced. But restaurants come with an expiry date, Anand added. “Gaggan will close by 2020. It’s the end of an era. For a decade I cooked at Gaggan and now I want something else.” The celebrated chef will be heading to Japan’s Fukuoka city in 2021 to do a 10-seater restaurant. “It’ll be an inaccessible place. I really want to control the crowd and reduce the volume. “Now the volume is too high and I want to do food that pleases my soul now.” With the Michelin announcing the launch of their prestigious Michelin Guide in Bangkok by the end of 2017, Anand said if he got three Michelin stars he would claim the fame of being the first such Indian to be so recognised. “Even if I don’t get it, I don’t have much to lose. They’ll have to answer to the people who have loved my food,” he said with a nonchalant shrug. “I still haven’t given my Indian passport away, though. “I’ll always remain very much Indian at heart, even though nobody in Kolkata really knows me and that I’ve made the region and its food so famous.” POST