Durban - Residents fully agree with the Victims of Crime Survey which found that household crime in the form of housebreakings and burglaries were on the rise in KwaZulu-Natal. Nasan Chetty, 37, of Silverglen, said criminals watch your every move. “They basically stake out a home and know exactly when you leave and when you return. They are not operating on a whim but they carefully orchestrate and execute their robberies.” Michelene David, 27, from Northdale in Pietermaritzburg, was a victim of a housebreaking in June. “We had just left our home and, minutes after, we received a call from our neighbour saying that she saw two men walk out of our home with our belongings. We were in shock and rushed home only to find our entire house turned upside down.” David said it was most frightening to know that strangers were in your home. “We cannot even walk on the street without being robbed of our cellphones and cash. “These criminals sit outside our homes and monitor our every movement. We are living in fear.” Kevin Naidu, 37, of Reservoir Hills said that previously they had housebreakings and burglaries on a daily basis but since the community patrol groups and WhatsApp crime groups had been formed, the number of houses being hit by criminals had dropped drastically. “When someone notices a suspicious person loitering in the neighbourhood, a message is sent immediately to the group and a member of the patrol team will respond to check it out.” Naidu said the police did a fantastic job when they were available, but with limited resources and the number of areas they had to cover, they sometimes did not respond on time. Anusha Singh, 47, from Westham in Phoenix said there has been a number of housebreakings in her area. “We have overgrown verges and criminals use this to hide-out to watch residents. Even the people who pass byare being robbed at knifepoint.” Singh said the criminals were professional. “These men are patient. They monitor the homes and they know the exact time people leave their homes and return. We must not be fooled,” she said. POST