Durban - Bricks from rubble, a vehicle that transports people from land to water, and a solar-powered car are some of the innovative projects worked on by final-year mechanical engineering students at the University of KwaZulu-Natal. The students displayed their work at an open day on Friday. It is part of their degree requirements and took them up to eight months to complete, starting with three months of planning and design. UKZN’s academic leader for mechanical engineering, Professor Glen Bright, said the open day highlighted the hard work and technical achievements of the final-year students. “Their research design project is one that prepares them for industry. “These students would have to use their three to four years of study, to use engineering principles in their projects. Apart from the public and students, we have judges who are invited and who will evaluate their projects, which are based on creativity, entrepreneurship and technology of the future,” he said. Popping out three bricks in minutes, the brick rehabilitation system, designed and presented by Danese Govender, Devesh Singh, Patrick Dlamini and Roman Ramcharan, focuses on making new bricks using the waste from construction and demolition sites. “The semi-autonomous brick rehabilitation system is a great system. It is fairly new. We managed to make the project with R20000 with a few components sponsored,” said Govender. “The idea behind it is to keep cost to a minimum and it is also more feasible. If the project cost R20000 now, at commercial (scale) it could be made for R40000 and sold for R60000.” The recycled bricks can be used for non load-bearing walls, garden features and in low-cost homes. Another amazing project at the open day was the amphibious motor vehicle (AMV), which cost group members Roshalan Govender, Vivek Naidoo, Andrew Isaac, Muneeb Malik and Keegan Naidoo more than R100000 to design and build using funding from UKZN. Designed to transport people from land to water, Vivek Naidoo said: “It has five major systems, which are retraction, steering, land engine, water engine and suspension. Integrating these components to work together was a challenge,” said Vivek Naidoo. The group hopes to have their vehicle used for search and rescue work. “It will transition quicker and it could help officials to save more time from changing vehicles to the vehicle itself changing,” said Govender. Friday’s demonstrations included a rocket display unit, an unmanned aerial vehicle and UKZN’s world solar car entry. POST