Feature: This year marks the centenary of the end of the Indian indenture system around the world. Incidentally, it also marks the centenary of Crescent School in Pine Street. In 1917, as the curtain on the Indian indenture system was finally drawn, the birth of the Crescent School opened up a new opportunity for the Indian children to attend, for the first time, a school that combined religious and secular education. Perhaps unconnected to each other, the two historic events marked the end of a significant chapter and the beginning of a new one, respectively, in the lives of the Indian community 100 years ago. But, as per South Africa, the indenture system formally ended in 1911. Grey Street Casbah has evolved organically in the central business district. The west end of West Street, which is where most Indians began to settle and do business, was known among the white community as “Coolie Location” and others referred to it as the “Imperial Ghetto”. But the Indians chose to call it “the Casbah”. The prolific growth of the Indian businesses in the CBD evidently irritated the white administrators of the city so much that they referred to Indians as “rabbits”, considered to be “destructive to the welfare of Europeans”. As early as 1871, attempts were made to contain the Indian presence. The modus operandi to contain the growing Indian presence in the CBD was through residential segregation, political exclusion, and suppression of commercial interests of Indians. And this was achieved through the promulgation of Licensing Acts, disenfranchisement, and restriction of immigration. The Group Areas Act of 1950 merely built on this past legislative history, but this time with a clear directive to introduce population classification. In the last few years, there has been a tremendous upsurge in remembering the Grey Street complex - also known as the Casbah - largely due to the establishment of a Casbah Facebook page and eNewspaper by Ishaan Blunden and Buddy Govender. One could figure out why it was called “Coolie Location/Town” and “Imperial Ghetto”, but no one could tell me why and how the Grey Street complex came to be called “the Casbah”. Casbah is an Arabic term used to refer to a citadel or fortified city/town. The term Qasba (Anglicised as Casbah) was introduced to Indian society through the French connection in Algiers. In many parts of North India, fortified cities going back to the Mogul era - with their entrance and exit gates - are well known. They were originally built to protect the chief, and the citizens within, from the external invasions. But, over time, these Qasbas became what we today call “market towns”. However, not all market towns in India are fortified. As the Casbah evolved into a market town, it acquired a unique status of an in-between place, of being neither a village nor a town. During the British colonial era, these market towns created vibrant economies for the local people. Village folk would bring their produce to these market towns and sell them and enjoy a day of urban life. By the mid-19th century, as these market towns in India evolved, a typical market town would have a bus stand, a post office, a government revenue office, a police station and a magistrate’s court. Much of the market town revolved around the bus station as the focal point where everyone arrived to do their business. Market towns also gradually became centres of entertainment, and breeding grounds for the Mafia. There is generally a symbiotic relationship, where the businesses fund the Mafia who, in turn, protect the businesses. The market town is a contested space between the village folk and the urban folk, between business and the Mafia; and, when the town is pretty much closed at the dead of night, the Mafia wakes up to contest its territory from the rival Mafia. All of these features of the market town were present in the Durban Casbah. Farming communities from as far as Mount Edgecombe, Verulam and Tongaat in the north - and Chatsworth, Isipingo and eManzimtoti in the south - came to buy their goods and weekly rations and enjoy a day’s entertainment, eating, and watching a movie. As the Casbah evolved, so, too, the transport to bring people into the market town evolved. They came initially by ox wagons, then by lorries that were converted to carry human cargo as well as goods, and then by rickety buses that served as reliable transport for hundreds of families coming into town for one thing or another. The Durban Casbah provided the space for bureaucracy, bustling markets and restaurants and sports fields. The colonial soldiers marched up and down the Soldiersway (hence the name of the road), with an army base on Natal Mounted Rifles (NMR) Avenue, with the Durban Light Infantry, the Old Fort on Old Fort Road - all representing the vicarious presence of the state that inflicted order on the residents. Derby Street, with its school, temple and racecourse; Carlisle Street with factories, community halls, shops, girls high school, church; Lorne Street with the Blind Society, medical centres; Beatrice Street with the busy bus rank, YMCA, and a clinic; Leopold Street as a cul-de-sac housing the Old Natal Table Tennis building - the Casbah was an urban centre to which village folk came to shop and watch movies at the Avalon and Raj cinemas, ate at the famous Victory Lounge on Grey Street, held Eisteddfods at the Tamil Vedic Society Hall on Carlisle Street, bought prayer goods on Bond Street, printed wedding cards at the Lakshmi Vilas Printing Press at Warwick Avenue. Once-famous media that catered to the Indian views and lifestyle were found in the Casbah - Radio Truro Station on Lorne Street, Leader and Graphic design place at the Good Hope Centre on Grey Street. Not only do the food recipes, cafés, cinemas, racecourse, football clubs, music bands, and even the gangs evoke memories of the Casbah, they also are the glue that bonds them to the place, even if they know it from the memories of their forebears. The Casbah represented the worldview in which people found meaning and a sense of orientation. As we remember Grey Street Casbah’s role in Indian life, we should also remember the many sacrifices Indians made during those formative years. To reflect on this past, there will be a symposium held on November 4 at the 1860 Heritage Centre (Old Documentation Centre) in Derby Street, Durban.  For more information on the symposium, contact symposium conveners Kalpana Hiralal via e-mail at Hiralalk@ukzn.ac.za or Betty Govinden at herbyg@telkomsa.net or Selvan Naidoo at snaidoo@nwood.co.za, cell 082 498 2614. A detailed programme of the symposium is published on the 1860 Heritage Centre’s Facebook page, https://www.facebook.com/1860heritagecentre/  * Professor Pratap Kumar is Emeritus Professor at the University of KwaZulu-Natal