Durban - Forty people were given the gift of sight by the Islamic Medical Association, the Ahmed Al-Kadi Private Hospital and McCord Hospital, to commemorate World Sight Day. Over the past two weekends, 20 patients made their way to Ahmed Al-Kadi Private Hospital in Mayville to have cataract extractions by four specialist ophthalmologists. “These preselected patients have been on the public sector waiting list for quite some time and we feel privileged to be able to step in and assist in giving the gift of sight which many take for granted,” said Ahmed Docrat, manager of the hospital. World Sight Day, which was on October 12, is an annual day of awareness to focus on blindness and vision impairment. A POST team watched as doctors carefully removed a cataract from a patient’s eye. The approximately 15-minute procedure had immediate results, as patients reported much better eyesight as they were rolled out of theatre. Said Mariannhill resident Muniamma Govender, 75: “Going in I was scared because we hear they (doctors) will use a needle but it went so nicely I couldn’t feel anything and I am feeling great now.” Govender said she had suffered with poor sight for decades. While Govender sat with a patch to her operated eye, another patient, 72-year-old Abdul Samad, was being prepped to be taken to the theatre. Samad said he had been finding it difficult to read and everything he looked at has been a blur for about three years. “My doctor is at McCord and he told me my cataract is very bad. My daughter contacted the Islamic Medical Association, who teamed up with both hospitals and it was my luck that I was one of the lucky ones chosen. I am so nervous because this is my first hospital procedure but I am getting courage from my wife, a cancer patient. She is my biggest supporter,” he said. The cataract extraction project is the third of its kind for the Islamic Medical Association, which hosted two others for Mandela Day and Women’s Month. “After two successful cataract camps, we’re pleased to be partnering with the Ahmed Al-Kadi and McCord hospitals. “It’s a cliché that we can’t help everyone, but we’re proving someone can help someone else,” said Yasiera Mahomed Suliman, the association’s Durban cataract campaign co-ordinator. “With these small but definite steps we can make huge differences to the lives of people who would otherwise have no hope.” POST