Durban - The cost of living is rising and so is concern among consumers. Statistics South Africa recently revealed that the consumer price inflation (CPI) increased to 5.1% year on year in September from 4.8% in August. The inflation reading is said to be above market expectations of 4.9% and is mainly boosted by the higher prices of housing, transport and miscellaneous goods and services. For many, it seems the cost of everything is going up sharply. Outgoing Statistician-General Pali Lehohla said annual prices rose faster for housing and utilities, transport, miscellaneous goods and services, alcoholic beverages, tobacco, household contents, equipment and health. “In September the CPI for goods increased by 4.4% year-on-year (up from 4.0% in August), and the CPI for services increased by 5.8% year-on-year (up from 5.6% in August). Provincial annual inflation rates ranged from 3.8% in Mpumalanga to 6.3% in the Western Cape,” Lehohla said. The price of meat increased by a whopping 15%, the highest since December 2011. A meat eater has to fork out R194/kg for an average beef fillet as opposed to what was previously R173. This is apparently because of severe drought. It is said to be the worst drought in recent times with farmers unable to meet the demand. Other foods and non-alcoholic beverages are also key contributors to the annual CPI such as sugar, sweets and desserts (8.1%) and hot beverages - mainly tea and coffee - (7.5%). The price of fuel also recently went up by 30 cents a litre due to stronger international oil prices and a weakening rand. Diesel increased by 41 cents and illuminating paraffin by 37 cents. For vehicle owners, a 71% increase in vehicle licensing transaction fees will take effect from February 1. The transaction fee is charged in addition to the vehicle licensing fee, which goes to the registering authority and is payable to the Road Traffic Management Corporation. Meanwhile, Eskom’s proposed tariff increases of 19.9% for direct customers and 27.5% for municipalities (from where private households buy their power) is threatening all South Africans and businesses. Municipalities are planning to add additional charges to customers’ bills. Residents are at their wits’ end and are asking: “How will we survive?” Pensioner Radha Nair, 70, from Chatsworth said she lived with her husband, and relied on her grant money and money from her son to make it through the month. “Everything is so expensive. It’s just the two of us and we are very careful when using our money. We try to save wherever we can. I don’t cook as often as I used to and use only what we need,” she said. “My husband and I both live on our pension and the money from my son. We have cut back on so many luxuries we used to have and hardly go out in an attempt to save our money.” Sixty-six-year-old Reservoir Hills grandmother, Savithree Arumugam, who takes care of her entire household with her grant money, said she could not afford to pay any more than she was. “My income is limited and I depend on every cent I get. If we have to pay more for our necessities, how will I put food on the table? I have so many mouths to feed and many bills to pay. Where will I get that extra money from?” Self-employed Deva Pillay, 65, from Lenasia, said: “There is simply no price control and people are having to suffer. It is quite ridiculous. I am the breadwinner in my home and the amount I pay for electricity alone is crazy. But, unfortunately, there’s very little that can be done unless the government has a change of attitude,” Pillay said. “South Africans have found themselves in a downward spiral.” POST