Durban - After living it up with his mistress while his wife struggled to put food on the table for their two children, a wealthy KwaZulu-Natal businessman has now been forced to pay up, or go to jail. The 52-year-old man, who runs a successful marquee hire business, is expected to fork out close to R1million following a four-year court battle for maintenance. Together with interest and costs, the cumulative amount is believed to be the highest relating to a maintenance contempt application in South Africa. The former Chatsworth man was last year found to be in contempt of two 2013 court orders, for R393500 and R161000. He tried to petition for leave to appeal those judgments but this was recently thrown out by the Supreme Court of Appeal. Speaking to POST, his wife said she had applied for a maintenance order in 2013 after years of struggling to pay the bills as she relied completely on her husband. She said her life had taken a turn for the worse when she found out he was unfaithful in May 2001. She was seven months pregnant with her son when the affair allegedly began, she said, but it was only when her baby was 10 days old that she discovered the shocking truth. “My baby had yellow jaundice, so I took him to hospital for a check-up. My sister had called on my husband’s phone, so he handed me the device. Once I was done with the call, a text message popped up on the screen. It was from his friend’s wife. I remained silent until we got home. I confronted him and he flat out admitted to the affair,” she said. “I was undergoing post-natal depression and to hear that my husband was cheating on me tore me apart. “We had fight after fight and I eventually decided to move to my sister’s house with my children.” She filed for divorce the next month but later decided to reconcile. But the affair continued and she again filed for divorce in 2005. However, they are still married. The husband took up residence with his new partner in Pietermaritzburg and allegedly transferred all their assets on to his mother’s name as well as his mistress’s, knowing he would lose most of his possessions. The devastated wife said she felt helpless and applied for a maintenance order of R10000 a month. But, he allegedly paid only once. The Chatsworth mother had to resort to starting a small decor company to pay her bills. She has battled to make ends meet and continues to battle financially in supporting herself and son. Matthew Pravda, a partner in the law firm Pravda and Knowles Attorneys, produced damning evidence before court that the estranged husband had lived a lavish lifestyle with his 54-year-old mistress, enjoying “extravagant trips” to Cape Town, Johannesburg, the Maldives and even Disney World. Pravda proved he made renovations to his house, threw elaborate parties and splashed out on a new car and spa day trips for his lover - all while his wife and children were left destitute. The contempt application launched by Pravda in the Durban High Court came before Judge Mahendra Chetty almost exactly a year ago and, while strenuously opposed by the husband, his future was decided when the court ordered him to pay up or go to jail. His fate has now been sealed with the appeal court declining to entertain the appeal. Pleased with the outcome, Pravda said: “Indeed, it can be said that it has been a long, arduous legal process. This marks a new era in that rich and powerful men will know that the legal arm of the law shall reach out and consider the needs of the women and children who are in dire need of help, that no man is above the law and that all powerful, rich men shall bow to the dictates of the law.” Pravda said legal practitioners should place more emphasis in ensuring that indigent and financially impoverished clients find a way in persisting against deadbeat dads. “Too often, attorneys are quick to withdraw by reason of indigent women not being able to persist in a matter by reason of lack of income. “While many women have lost hope in our justice system and its failure to bring to book recalcitrant maintenance defaulters, we hope to have changed that viewpoint,” he said. POST