Feature: The 100th anniversary of the “Padavatan Six Rescue” is an opportunity to reclaim a piece of history so that future generations can be inspired by this legacy of bravery. So says Viroshen Chetty, co-author of the Legends of the Tides novel that documented the historical moment when six fishermen became heroes after rescuing 176 men, women and children from the raging waters of the mighty Umgeni River a century ago, on October 28, 1917. Caused by abnormal torrential rains that descended in sheets for four days between October 25 and 28, the Springfield Flats of Durban in the Umgeni Valley was covered with flood water. This broad plain where the Umgeni River leaves the hills and winds out to meet the Indian Ocean was densely populated by Indian market gardeners. Chetty told POST his book contains more than 250 photographs and hundreds of stories of the community that was “dumped” during the Group Areas Act. “It is not just a story that belongs to the Indian community - it should be treasured as part of South Africa’s legacy of heroism that was prevalent in so many oppressed communities, but which was deliberately suppressed by the colonial and apartheid government. It was clearly not in the interest of the rulers at that time to celebrate an event that will make people feel proud of who they are and where they come from.” The unlikely heroes were six fishermen who plied their trade in the Durban Harbour. They included four seine-netters, a shrimper and a 16-year old boy. Mariemuthoo Padavatan, Gengan Padavatan, T Veloo, Sabapathy Govender, Rungasamy Naidoo and Kuppusamy Naidoo were “Ubuntu in action”, said Chetty. “The story of how a small band of volunteer fishermen threw themselves into raging flood waters, regardless of their own safety in order to save the lives of strangers, is beyond heroic. And what was more remarkable is that they did it not once, but five times, in a single afternoon. He said the 100-year celebration must be used to share experiences, memories and history. “Communities in South Africa have for so long been separated that we need to make an effort to share each others’ stories so that each story is like a colourful strand in the tapestry that makes up the South African experience.” He said there must be many stories like this in other communities around the country. “Personally, I grew up learning in apartheid era history books about the heroism of Wolraad Woltemade, the Boer who rescued 14 people on horseback when their ship capsized. I had no idea until I was much older about the story of the Padavatan Six whose deeds, although it does not diminish Mr Woltemade’s efforts, certainly eclipsed it. “That was the tragedy of apartheid education - that communities where denied their heroes.” The son of Sabapathy Govender, co-author Dr Neelan Govender, 88, said the reinforcement of memories and history as a people and a nation was important. “It is the responsibility of the people to make sure past events are honoured, remembered and entrenched in the minds of the nation.” The Chatsworth resident said his father, who died at age 52, was a “classic man” who loved fishing. “We plan on doing a celebration at the place where they fished even though it’s all industrial buildings. We want to pay tribute to all those involved by laying a wreath where everything took place.” Anton Marrie, grandson of Captain Mariemuthoo Padavatan, will also pay tribute to the brave heroes at the Durban Seine-Netters club, and invites all friends and family to join in on Sunday. “We would love to see all the descendants of Mariemuthoo come through and light a lamp in commemoration of the selfless heroes.” Mariemuthoo was the son of Soman Padavatan who had led the exodus of fisher folk in 1865 from the colonial cane fields to Salisbury Island in the middle of the Durban harbour. The fisher folk of Salisbury Island plied their trade of seine-netting, learned from their forefathers in South India. Moghambary (Morgan) Subramanian, 66, the custodian of Durban Seine-Netters and grandson of Mariemuthoo, said his only wish for the 100-year celebration was for local government to recognise the work that was done and keep their legacy alive. The City of Durban initially awarded the brave six with medals in honour of their selfless act. A Chatsworth school, the M Padavatan Primary School, was also named after the group’s leader. Morgan, with family and friends, are however calling for the six to be honoured with the Order of Mendi for Bravery award. He said the Padavatan rescue coincided with the centenary of the World War I sinking of the SS Mendi, which claimed the lives of more than 600 black South African soldiers. He said he tried to petition for the Umgeni River to be named the Padavatan Junction as well, but with no progress. Morgan has been running the Durban Seine-Netters club for more than 10 years. POST