Durban - With a glint in his eye and a broad smile on his face, Ishwar Nkosinathi Ndlela, 38, beamed with pride as he conducted a walkabout with guests during the official inauguration of the Mahatma Gandhi Centre for Information Technology last week. The Phoenix Settlement computer centre opened to students from August 1 and Ndlela was one of the first candidates to enrol. Ndlela, who said his name Ishwar, meaning lord or ruler, had been given to him three years ago by a spiritual leader because of his love for community work, is now the chief tutor, having already trained his first batch of students. Primarily established to encourage learning and development in a largely computer illiterate community, the centre was inaugurated by India’s minister of state for external affairs, Vijay Kumar Singh, with a traditional ribbon-cutting ceremony. It is one of two welfare projects funded by the Indian government after a visit by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in July last year. The centre is equipped with 20 computers and IT equipment and offers a two-week course broken into introductory and intermediate sessions. Ndlela told POST it had given him hope for the future and he was eager to see the radical change it would bring to the community. Students Thobani Gumede, Nomusa Xaba, Mzwakhe Mbatha and Makhosi Sishuba, who were trained by Ndlela, are now volunteers at the facility. “What a great impact this has made to myself, as well as the community. Without something like this, locals would continue to be computer illiterate. Inanda and Bhambayi are so grateful to the Indian government and the Gandhi family. We hope to make the most of this opportunity. Service to humanity is service to God,” Ndlela said. He said the computer training was basic in an effort to accommodate all ages. “Anyone of any age can learn. You don’t have to have matric to learn how to use the computer.” Locals will also be educated in creating professional CVs which will potentially assist them in finding employment. Addressing guests at the opening, Singh said he was honoured and humbled to be in Durban for the opening. “I was supposed to come here a few months back, but somehow it did not work out. But today I feel truly blessed.” Highlighting the importance of technology, Singh said he hoped the centre would empower the community. “I hope to see the centre propagate employment and keep to the ethos of the Gandhi Settlement that everybody should benefit and everybody should rise.” Ela Gandhi, a granddaughter of Mahatma Gandhi, presented the minister with a Salt March T-shirt and a USB stick. She hopes to eventually turn the Gandhi Settlement into a World Heritage Site. A trustee of the settlement, Satish Dhupelia, a great grandson of Mahatma Gandhi, said the link between India and South Africa went back to 1946, when India was the first country to report the practice of apartheid to the UN. He said Indian government had continued to help the citizens of the country. “The Indian government is known to train students into IT specialists. It is nice to see that they have come to our small community of Bhambayi and are investing in the people over here. That is ultimately what we want, for people to invest in people so that people grow.” “We hope with this initiative, people will empower themselves, become better and remember the bond we have between the two countries.” POST