Durban - The murder of a “gentle” law graduate outside a Durban primary school has baffled his family, and traumatised pupils - some of whom had heard the gunshot and seen his bloodied body. Neresh Makan, 35, was driving to a store to buy a cellphone battery when he was accosted by three hijackers near Highstone Primary School in Whetstone, Phoenix, on Friday morning. The murder took place two days after an award-winning Pietermaritzburg car salesman was found stabbed to death in the boot of a vehicle he was going to deliver to a customer. Father-of-two Renesh Bhagwandeen, of Greytown, who worked as a manager at Motor City, was travelling in a convoy with colleagues to deliver a VW Polo in Idutywa in the Eastern Cape when he was attacked in what was believed to be a hijacking. The annual crime statistics released on Tuesday show violent and organised crimes in South Africa continue to increase, with 52 murders and 46 hijackings taking place every day. Makan, who worked in the legal field, was travelling in a Toyota Tazz, and as he slowed to make a U-turn, the hijackers approached him, said KZN VIP Security spokesperson Gareth Naidoo. “One suspect was armed with a 9mm pistol and held him at gunpoint, while two others got into the vehicle. Makan was also armed. One of the suspects then shot him in the back of the head before fleeing with his vehicle.” Pupils and teachers at the school heard a gunshot go off just before the tea break. “Teachers immediately cordoned off the area where the victim’s body was visible and informed pupils what had happened,” governing body chairperson Munira Essop told POST. “Many were left shaken and are receiving trauma counselling.” Essop said one pupil who was at home at the time, had also heard the gunshot. “Thinking it was a firework, she ran to the window only to see the victim’s body covered in blood. She was hysterical. The child has been having sleepless nights since then.” Makan’s cousin, Darryl Naidoo, described his murder as senseless. “We cannot believe he was killed in such a violent manner. Neresh was a wonderful person who kept to himself. He would never harm anyone,” he said. “Our entire family is shocked.” Naidoo said Makan had studied law through Unisa and opened a practice doing legal work, although not as a lawyer. “He lived in his parents’ home with his aunt. His parents and only sibling passed away a few years ago due to natural causes. He loved sport, especially cricket and soccer, and he loved to travel,” he said. Naidoo said Makan had carried a gun for protection. “Crime in South Africa is spiralling out of control. The government is not doing enough to tackle the issue. Criminals are becoming more brazen and are not afraid to kill,” he said. “We need the government to pass harsher punishments for criminals who are convicted of rape, robbery and murder.” Residents, who wished to remain anonymous, said they were afraid to leave their homes because the area had become a hot spot for crime. A 45-year-old resident said he was in his yard gardening with his wife when they, too, heard the gunshot. “The victim drove past my house and slowed down to turn into my neighbour’s driveway. All of a sudden, three men walking on the road rushed towards his vehicle. Within seconds, I heard the gun go off, and the men fled in the victim’s car.” The father of two said residents lived “under lock and key”. “We have a vacant plot of land across from our homes and these criminals hide in the long grass. We do not feel safe.” A 55-year-old resident said the incident had left her afraid. “I am so scared. I cannot believe our area has become so riddled with crime. Today it was an outsider, tomorrow it could be one of our neighbours.” Another resident, a father of two, said many robbers pretended to look for jobs. “When they are in your yard or standing at your gate talking to you, they also scan your property to look for alarm systems and easy entry points.” Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said no arrests had been made. Regarding Bhagwandeen’s murder, Mthatha cluster police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Mzukisis Fatyela said the vehicle had been singled out and hijacked. “When his co-workers were unable to locate him in the convoy, they contacted the SAPS. With the help of a tracking company we located his vehicle in an area called Payne Location, just outside Mthatha. He was stabbed several times and his body was dumped in the boot.” No arrests have been made. Yanesh Bhagwandeen said his family had rallied to support his brother’s wife and children. “We are all still in shock. He was a kind person who was always willing to help anyone in need. His overall passion was cars. I am sure he had dreams of opening his own dealership one day.” Motor City’s operations manager Zaheer Chan said Bhagwandeen had last week won an outstanding achievement award for overall work performance. “This death has left a void in our team and we have offered our staff counselling to help them deal with the loss.” POST