Durban - A teenage girl who is accused of bullying two Phoenix sisters has claimed she acted in self defence. The Grade 11 pupil, prevented by an interim high court interdict from interfering with the sisters, made the claim in responding court papers. In August, the Durban High Court granted an order preventing the 17-year-old, together with two friends, from assaulting the siblings, threatening them in any way, or having any contact with them, either directly or indirectly. In court papers, the complainants, aged 14 and 16, said they were left traumatised by the assaults and were now afraid to attend school. The girls’ mother further claimed the school had not done enough to protect their daughters from the attacks. The court ordered the principal to take reasonable steps to protect the sisters from being assaulted, threatened or verbally abused by the three pupils while at school or while engaged in official school activities. The mother said her older daughter had a fall-out with the alleged bully on June 19. Since then, the sisters were allegedly subject to verbal and physical abuse. In her papers, the alleged bully denied there had been any fallout with her fellow pupil. “What transpired was I greeted another boy by telling him ‘hello babe’. She (the 16-year-old complainant) did not appear to be happy and seemed to have become jealous. “After school she approached me with a belt in her hand and wanted to fight with me. She began to assault me and I acted in self defence.” Speaking about the fight in the schoolyard, she denied starting the fight, saying it was her two other friends who were fighting with the 16-year-old. “I had tried to separate the fight. I don’t know how it started.” She said the siblings’ mother had been made aware of the fight and arrived at school. “She also swore at me and pushed me,” she said. She claimed the sisters were later suspended. She had also been suspended, but said she had not received any notification to attend a disciplinary tribunal at the school. The girl has denied all allegations of abuse, both physical and verbal. The matter was adjourned. POST